--- PAGE 1 ---

Manufacturing of Dual Thrust Extruded Double Base Propellant Grain No. 
MPA-T1330-B/S 
 
HEMRL has developed Dual Thrust Extruded Double B ase (EDB) propellant for 
Portable Anti tank Guided Missile and the propellant has performed successfully as 
per requirement in static, dynamic and number of flight trials. The desired pressure -
time and thrust -time profile and missile maximum range is achieved using a Dual 
Thrust EDB propellant grain of high energy and high burn rate which was achieved 
by using speci al burn rate modifiers in the EDB propellant formulation. The 
propellant performance was meeting all the ballistic requirements. 
Technology for manufacture of dual thrust EDB propellant is different from 
conventional extruded double base (EDB) propellant a nd composite propellant 
processing. The propellant has unique characteristics of low temperature and 
pressure sensitivities. This ensures minimum variation in propellant performance 
over wide range of temperature conditions. These unique properties are coupled with 
good mechanical properties suitable for free standing grain and smokeless exhaust. 
These properties can be achieved by manufacturing process optimized by HEMRL. 
The propellant composition has be en established by HEMRL using indigenously 
available ingredients and special burn rate modifiers. After development trials and 
successful validation, propellant development has been completed. The 
manufacturing of dual thrust EDB propellant involves various steps like NC-NG paste 
preparation, knea ding, rolling, extrusion, annealing, maturation followed by 
machining and inhibition processes which were established by HEMRL during 
development. 
Now, the EDB propellant developed by HEMRL is ready for TOT by manufacturing/ 
production agencies. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 2 ---

 
Contact Details 
Interested companies/industries are requested to apply against this EOI to following 
address:- 
To, (with attachments) 
Director 
High Energy Materials Research Laboratory (HEMRL) 
DRDO, Govt. of India, Ministry of Defence 
Sutarwadi, Pune-411021 
Email-director.hemrl@gov.in 
 
Copy to: - (without attachments) 
The Director 
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM) 
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi- 110011 
Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in 
 
(a) Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian 
Companies Act, as amended time to time)  
(b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.  
(c) Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  
(d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  
(e) Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partne rs/ 
shareholders, foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the 
prevailing Govt of India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment 
(FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.  
(f) Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  
(g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.  
(h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.  

--- PAGE 3 ---

(i) Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of 
Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  
(j) Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production 
capacities) and technical expertise.  
(k) List of Testing and Support equipments (l) ISO/ ISI certification or any other 
certification  
(m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any)  
(n) Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant 
financial and commercial risks. 
 (o) Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales 
and service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.  
(p) PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material, 
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc. 
 (q) Under taking form company seeking ToT  that none of its Directors, Independent 
Directors, non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any 
corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities. 
(r ) Details of the industries license for defence manufacturing be provided b y the 
industry seeking ToTs.