--- PAGE 1 ---

 
       
 बल᭭य मूलं िव᭄ानम    DEFENCE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT ORGANISATION (DRDO)MINISTRY OF DEFENCE, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA“Government strives to have  a workforce which reflects gender balance and women candidates Online Applications are invited for the Recruitment against post of Senior Technical Assistant-B (STAunder Defence Research & Development Organisation Technical Cadre (DRTC  CRUCIAL DATE OF ELIGIBILITY OPENING DATE FOR ONLINE APPLICATIONCLOSING DATE FOR SUBMISSION OF ONLINE APPLICATION LAST DATE OF APPLICATION FEE PAYMENTCORRECTION WINDOW DATES   DATE OF TIER-I EXAM (CBT) Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is working under Ministry of Defence, Government of India and is responsible for Research & Development of stateservices viz. Army, Navy & Air Force. DRDO offers exciting and challenging career opportunities to work on defence systems & technologies, infrastructure & related activities, in a broad spectrum of subjects/disciplines/trades at its laboratories/establishments/units which are spread throughoutOnline applications are invited for direct recruitment to the above mentioned posts under & Development Organisation Technical Cadre (read the complete advertisement (all sections) carefully, before filling up the online application form. Instructions for filling-up of online application and Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) are available on DRDO website https://www.drdo.gov.in. This advertisement consists of resolved by referring to the English version of this advertisement. In case of any ambiguity, the decision of DRDO will be final. Any dispute will be subject to the     1.1.1 Pay Scale  Pay Matrix Level-6(₹ 35400-112400) as per 7rules. 1.1.2 Educational Qualification Requirement (EQR)Candidates must possess EQRs viz., B.Sc/Diplomadate of eligibility for the posts they are applying. Candidates whose result of the final examination is awaited as on cruciadate of eligibility for the prescribed qualification are eligibility does not entitle any candidate to claim his/her candidature for selection to any post.          Please note that the candidates possessing higher qualification, vizBachelor of Technology, Bachelor of Engineering Degrees etc. in any subject or discipline eligibility, shall NOT be considered for recruitment. 
 
CENTRE FOR PERSONNEL TALENT MANAGEMENT (CEPTAMScrutinize, Actualize & Recognize Human Potential ADVERTISEMENT No.: CEPTAM
1.1 Senior Technical AssistantSection-1: Educational
 DEFENCE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT ORGANISATION (DRDO)MINISTRY OF DEFENCE, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA a workforce which reflects gender balance and women candidates are encouraged to apply” Online Applications are invited for the Recruitment against 561 VacanciesB (STA-B) and 203 Vacancies for the post of Technicianunder Defence Research & Development Organisation Technical Cadre (DRTCIMPORTANT DATES 01.01.2026 OPENING DATE FOR ONLINE APPLICATION 11.12.2025 CLOSING DATE FOR SUBMISSION OF ONLINE 01.01.2026, 23:55 HoursLAST DATE OF APPLICATION FEE PAYMENT 03.01.2026, 23:55 Hours04.01.2026 - 06.01.2026TO BE ANNOUNCED ON DRDO WEBSITEDefence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is working under Ministry of Defence, Government of India and is responsible for Research & Development of state-of-the-art battlefield systems required by the triRDO offers exciting and challenging career opportunities to work on defence systems & technologies, infrastructure & related activities, in a broad spectrum of subjects/disciplines/trades at its laboratories/establishments/units which are spread throughoutare invited for direct recruitment to the above mentioned posts under & Development Organisation Technical Cadre (DRTC) as per Section-1 below. Candidates are advised to l sections) carefully, before filling up the online application form. Instructions up of online application and Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) are available on DRDO website advertisement consists of five sections. Translation ambiguity, if any, shall be resolved by referring to the English version of this advertisement. In case of any ambiguity, the decision of DRDO will be final. Any dispute will be subject to the courts/tribunals having jurisdiction over Delhi only.as per 7th CPC Pay Matrix and other benefits/allowances as per extant Govt. of India Qualification Requirement (EQR) s viz., B.Sc/Diploma as laid down against respective Post Code in following tabledate of eligibility for the posts they are applying. Candidates whose result of the final examination is awaited as on cruciadate of eligibility for the prescribed qualification are NOT eligible and hence should not apply. eligibility does not entitle any candidate to claim his/her candidature for selection to any post. possessing higher qualification, viz., Master of Science, Doctor of Philosophy, r of Engineering Degrees etc. in any subject or discipline be considered for recruitment.  
CENTRE FOR PERSONNEL TALENT MANAGEMENT (CEPTAMScrutinize, Actualize & Recognize Human Potential ADVERTISEMENT No.: CEPTAM-11 
1.1 Senior Technical Assistant-B (STA-B): Group 'B', Non-Gazetted, Non Educational Qualification Requirement (EQR)Page 1 of 20 
DEFENCE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT ORGANISATION (DRDO) a workforce which reflects gender balance and women candidates  Scrutinize, Actualize & Recognize Human Potential 561 Vacancies for the  for the post of Technician-A (Tech-A) under Defence Research & Development Organisation Technical Cadre (DRTC) ours ours .01.2026, 23:55 Hours N DRDO WEBSITE Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is working under Ministry of Defence, Government of art battlefield systems required by the tri-RDO offers exciting and challenging career opportunities to work on defence systems & technologies, infrastructure & related activities, in a broad spectrum of subjects/disciplines/trades at its laboratories/establishments/units which are spread throughout the country. are invited for direct recruitment to the above mentioned posts under Defence Research below. Candidates are advised to l sections) carefully, before filling up the online application form. Instructions up of online application and Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) are available on DRDO website Translation ambiguity, if any, shall be resolved by referring to the English version of this advertisement. In case of any ambiguity, the decision of DRDO courts/tribunals having jurisdiction over Delhi only.  CPC Pay Matrix and other benefits/allowances as per extant Govt. of India as laid down against respective Post Code in following table, on crucial date of eligibility for the posts they are applying. Candidates whose result of the final examination is awaited as on crucial eligible and hence should not apply.  Mere fulfilment of the ., Master of Science, Doctor of Philosophy, r of Engineering Degrees etc. in any subject or discipline as on crucial date of 
CENTRE FOR PERSONNEL TALENT MANAGEMENT (CEPTAM) 
Gazetted, Non-Ministerial Qualification Requirement (EQR) 

--- PAGE 2 ---

 
Page 2 of 20 
 
1.1.3 Description of Vacancies for Senior Technical Assistant-B (STA-B)  
Post 
Code 
Subject/ 
Discipline 
Educational Qualification 
Requirement (EQR) 
Vacancies *Posting 
 Station SC ST OBC EWS UR TOTAL PwBD 
0101 Automobile 
Engineering 
Diploma in Automobile 
Engineering or Technology 
recognized by AICTE. 
1 0 1 1 0 3 
CAT A 
[06] 
 
CAT B 
[06] 
 
CAT C 
[05] 
 
CAT D  
[04]   
 
 
 
(Applic
able 
for 
Vacanc
ies 
against 
Post 
code 
0101 
to 
0117)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A1, C2 
0102 Chemical Engineering 
Diploma in Chemical Engineering 
or Technology recognized by 
AICTE. 
3 1 4 1 6 15 
A2, B2, D2, 
H1, J1, N1, 
P1, V1 
0103 Chemistry 
B.Sc. degree in Chemistry from 
recognized University or  
Institute.  
3 0 5 3 11 22 
A2, B2, C1, 
D2, H2, J2, 
K1, K2, M2, 
N1, P1,V1 
0104 Civil Engineering Diploma in Civil Engineering 
recognized by AICTE. 1 1 1 1 7 11 B1, B2, C1, 
D2, P1 
0105 Computer Science & 
Engineering 
Diploma in Computer Engineering 
or Technology or Computer 
Science or Information 
Technology recognized by AICTE 
(Courses by DOEACC or BCA or 
MCA are not eligible). 
23 9 39 14 75 160 
A1, B1, B2, 
C1, C2, D1, 
D2, H2, J2, 
K2, M1, P1, 
V1 
0106 
Electrical & 
Electronics 
Engineering 
Diploma in Electrical & 
Electronics Engineering or 
Technology recognized by AICTE. 
1 3 3 0 4 11 B2, C1, C2, 
H2 
0107 Electrical Engineering 
Diploma in Electrical Engineering 
or Technology recognised by 
AICTE. 
6 2 10 6 23 47 
A1, A2, B1, 
B2, D2, 
H1,H2, P1, 
V1 
0108 
Electronics 
Engineering or 
Electronics & 
Communication 
Engineering  or 
Electronics & 
Telecommunication 
Engineering 
Diploma in Electronics or  
Electronics & Communication or 
Electronics & Telecommunication 
Engineering or Technology 
recognized by AICTE. 
24 11 30 6 40 111 
A1, B1, B2, 
C1, C2, D1, 
D2, H1, H2, 
J2, K2, P1, 
V1 
0109 Geology 
B.Sc. degree in Geology from 
recognized University or   
Institute 
0 0 0 1 0 1 C1 
0110 Instrumentation 
Engineering 
Diploma in Instrumentation or 
Instrumentation & Control or 
Instrumentation & Process 
Control Engineering or  
Technology recognized by AICTE. 
0 0 1 0 5 6 B1, D2, K1, 
K2, N1 
0111 
Instrumentation & 
Electronics  
Engineering 
Diploma in Instrumentation & 
Electronics Engineering or 
Technology recognized by AICTE. 
1 0 1 0 0 2 B2 

--- PAGE 3 ---

 
Page 3 of 20 
 
*Posting station with all India service liability 
 
 
 
1.2.1 Pay Scale 
Pay Matrix Level-2(₹ 19900-63200) as per 7th CPC Pay Matrix and other benefits/allowances as per extant Govt. of India 
rules. 
1.2.2 Educational Qualification Requirement (EQR)  
Candidates must have acquired the EQR as laid down against respective Post Code in following table, on crucial date of 
eligibility for the posts they are applying. Candidates whose result of the final examination is awaited as on crucial date of 
eligibility for the prescribed qualification are NOT eligible and hence should not apply. Mere fulfilment of the eligibility does 
not entitle any candidate to claim his/her candidature for selection to any post. 
Please note that candidates possessing higher qualification, viz., Master of Science, Doctor of Philosophy, Bachelor 
of Technology, Bachelor of Engineering Degrees etc. in any subject or discipline as on crucial date of eligibility, 
shall NOT be considered for the recruitment. Candidates with Diploma or Bachelor’s Degree in Science shall be 
eligible for recruitment to Technician-A, provided, such candidates fulfill the educational qualification 
requirements for Technician-A. 
Post 
Code 
Subject/ 
Discipline 
Educational  Qualification 
Requirement (EQR) Vacancies *Posting 
    Station SC ST OBC EWS UR TOTAL PwBD 
0112 Library Science 
Degree in Science with Diploma 
or Degree or Post Graduate 
Degree in Library Science or 
Library and Information Science, 
of minimum one year duration 
from recognized University or 
Technical Board or Institute. 
0 1 0 0 4 5 
 
A1, B2, D2, 
H2, K2 
0113 Mathematics 
B.Sc. degree in Mathematics from 
recognized University or  
Institute.  
1 0 1 0 4 6 D2, P1, V1 
0114 Mechanical 
Engineering 
Diploma in Mechanical 
Engineering or Technology or 
Mechanical Engineering or 
Technology (Production or 
Automobile or Refrigeration & Air 
Conditioning or Maintenance) 
recognized by AICTE. 
14 10 37 14 52 127 
A1, A2, B1, 
B2, C1, C2, 
D1, H1, H2, 
J1, J2, K2, 
M2, N1, P1, 
V1 
0115 Metallurgical 
Engineering 
Diploma in Metallurgical 
Engineering or Technology 
recognised by AICTE. 
2 1 1 1 7 12 A2, B2, H2, 
P1 
0116 Physics B.Sc. degree in Physics from 
recognized University or Institute  3 4 2 1 8 18 
C1, D1, D2, 
J2, K2, M2, 
V1 
0117 Psychology  B.Sc. degree in Psychology from 
recognized University or Institute 0 0 0 1 3 4 D2 
Total 83 43 136 50 249 561 21  
1.2 Technician-A (TECH-A): Group 'C', Non-Gazetted, Non-Ministerial 
 

--- PAGE 4 ---

 
Page 4 of 20 
 
1.2.3 Description Of Vacancies For Technician-A (Tech-A) 
Post 
Code 
 
Trade/ 
Discipline 
** Educational Qualification 
Requirement (EQR) 
Vacancies *Posting 
Station SC ST OBC EWS UR Total MSP ESM PwBD 
0201 Book Binder 
(i) Xth Class Or equivalent from 
recognized Board or Institute 
and (ii) Certificate from 
recognized ITI in Book Binder 
or Offset Machine Operator 
cum Book Binder Trade or 
Offset Printing Trade or Litho-
Offset machine minder. 
0 0 1 0 2 3 0 0 
 
CAT A 
[02] 
 
CAT B 
[02] 
 
CAT C 
[02] 
 
CAT D  
[02] 
 
(Applica 
able for  
 
Vacanc
ies  
 
against 
Post 
code 
0201 
to 
0216)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B2, D2, 
K2 
0202 Carpenter 
(i) Xth Class Or equivalent from 
recognized Board or Institute 
and (ii) Certificate from 
recognized ITI in Carpenter 
Trade. 
0 1 0 1 2 4 0 1 C1, J2, P1 
0203 CNC 
Operator 
(i) Xth Class Or equivalent from 
recognized Board or Institute 
and (ii) Certificate from 
recognized ITI in CNC Operator 
Trade or CNC Programmer cum 
Operator Trade. 
0 0 1 1 1 3 0 0 B2, D1 
0204 COPA 
(i) Xth Class Or equivalent from 
recognized Board or Institute 
and (ii) Certificate from 
recognized ITI in Computer 
Operator & Programming 
Assistant (COPA) Trade. 
7 1 15 5 24 52 2 2 
A1, B2, 
C1, D1, 
D2, H2, 
J2, K2, 
N1, P1, 
V1 
0205 Draughtsman 
(Mechanical) 
(i) Xth Class Or equivalent from 
recognized Board or Institute 
and (ii) Certificate from 
recognized ITI in Draughtsman 
(Mechanical) Trade. 
0 0 2 1 3 6 0 1 
B2, C2, 
H2, V1 
 
0206 Electrician 
(i) Xth Class Or equivalent from 
recognized Board or Institute 
and (ii) Certificate from 
recognized ITI in Electrician or 
Wireman or Electrical Fitter 
Trade. 
6 3 4 2 15 30 0 2 
B1, B2, 
C2, D2, 
H1, H2, 
J2, K1, 
N1, P1 
0207 Electronics  
(i) Xth Class Or equivalent from 
recognized Board or Institute 
and (ii) Certificate from  
recognized ITI in Electronics  or 
Electronic Mechanic  or Radio & 
TV Mechanic or Radar Mechanic 
or Information & Communication 
Technology System Maintenance 
or IT & Electronic System 
Maintenance or Maintenance of 
Industrial Electronics Trade. 
4 3 5 3 16 31 1 4 
B1, B2, 
D1, D2, 
H2, J2, 
K2, V1 

--- PAGE 5 ---

 
Page 5 of 20 
 
*Posting station with all India service liability. 
 
**Educational Qualification Requirement (EQR) 
If in any of the required disciplines/trades, Industrial Training Institutes (ITI) do no award certificate, then in such a case 
candidates who possess certificate of minimum one year duration from a recognised Institution in the required 
discipline/trade Or possess National Trade Certificate in the required discipline/trade; Or possess National Apprenticeship 
Certificate in the required discipline/trade are also eligible to apply.  
Post 
Code 
 
Trade/ 
Discipline 
** Educational Qualification 
Requirement (EQR) 
Vacancies PwBD  
*Posting 
Station SC ST OBC EWS UR Total MSP ESM 
0208 Fitter 
(i) Xth Class Or equivalent from 
recognized Board or Institute 
and (ii) Certificate from 
recognized ITI in Fitter or Bench 
Fitter Trade. 
4 1 7 2 11 25 2 3 
 
A2, B2, 
C2, D2, 
H2, J1, 
P1 
0209 Machinist 
(i) Xth Class Or equivalent from 
recognized Board or Institute 
and (ii) Certificate from 
recognized ITI in Machinist 
Trade.  
0 1 3 0 8 12 0 0 
B1, B2, 
C2, D2, 
H2, M2 
0210 
Mechanic 
(Motor 
Vehicle) 
(i) Xth Class Or equivalent from 
recognized Board or Institute 
and (ii) Certificate from 
recognized ITI in Mechanic 
(Motor Vehicle) Trade.  
1 0 1 0 5 7 0 2 
A1, B2, 
K2, P1, 
V1 
0211 Optical 
Worker 
(i) Xth Class Or equivalent from 
recognized board or institute and 
(ii) Certificate from recognized 
ITI in Optical Worker Trade. 
1 0 1 0 0 2 0 0 D1 
0212 Photographer 
(i) Xth Class Or equivalent from 
recognized Board or Institute 
and (ii) Certificate from  
recognized ITI in Photographer 
or Digital Photographer Trade. 
1 0 0 0 4 5 0 1 
C1, D2, 
K2, M1, 
V1 
0213 Sheet Metal 
Worker 
(i) Xth Class Or equivalent from 
recognized Board or Institute 
and (ii) Certificate from 
recognized ITI in Sheet Metal 
Worker Trade. 
0 1 0 0 2 3 0 0 B2, H2 
0214 Surveyor 
(i) Xth Class Or equivalent from 
recognized board or institute and 
(ii) Certificate from recognized 
ITI in Surveyor Trade. 
0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 C1 
0215 Turner 
(i) Xth Class Or equivalent from 
recognized Board or Institute 
and (ii) Certificate from 
recognized ITI in Turner Trade. 
0 1 2 1 4 8 0 0 B2, H2, 
P1 
0216 Welder 
(i) Xth Class Or equivalent from 
recognized Board or Institute 
and (ii) Certificate from 
recognized ITI in Welder Trade. 
1 1 2 2 5 11 1 0 B2, C2, 
H2, P1 
Total 25 13 44 18 103 203 6 16 8  

--- PAGE 6 ---

 
Page 6 of 20 
 
 
 
a) The number of vacancies advertised may increase or decrease depending upon organisational requirement. A vacancy 
may be kept unfilled, if no candidate is found suitable. Total numbers of vacancies are inclusive of number of vacancies 
for ESM/MSP/PwBD.  
b) The Educational/Technical qualification certificate(s) uploaded by the candidate must clearly indicate the date of issue. If 
the date of issue of such certificate(s) is after the crucial date for determining eligibility, the candidate shall upload 
the consolidated mark sheet indicating the date of declaration of the final qualifying examination results, or the 
marksheet of the last semester/year, showing the date of declaration of result. In cases where none of these 
documents contain the date of declaration of results, the candidate must produce a certificate from the concerned 
Board/University explicitly indicating the date of declaration of results, at the time of Document Verification. 
c) If a candidate possesses any additional qualification or is pursuing any higher qualification as on crucial date, same 
should be mentioned during submission of online application.  
d) For the purpose of tables given in Section 1: All abbreviations/codes shall carry the meanings assigned to them in the 
Standing Notes appended below- 
i. Persons with Benchmark Disability (PwBD): CAT A: (a) Blindness and low vision; CAT B: (b) Deaf and hard of   
hearing; CAT C: (c ) Locomotor disability including cerebral palsy, leprosy cured, dwarfism, acid attack victims and 
muscular dystrophy; CAT D: (d) Autism, intellectual disability, specific learning disability and mental illness &          
(e) Multiple disabilities from amongst persons under clauses (a) to (d) including deaf-blindness(O.M. No. 
36035/02/2017-Estt(Res), dated 15 January 2018). 
ii. Code of Posting Stations : A1=Ahilyanagar; A2=Ambernath; B1=Balasore; B2=Bengaluru; C1=Chandigarh; 
C2=Chennai; D1=Dehradun; D2=Delhi; H1=Haldwani; H2=Hyderabad; J1=Jagdalpur; J2=Jodhpur; K1=Kanpur; 
K2=Kochi; M1=Mussoorie; M2=Mysuru; N1=Nashik; P1=Pune;  V1=Visakhapatnam. 
 
 
 
 
Recruited candidates will draw salary according to pay level (7th CPC Pay Matrix) of the applied post, and will be entitled to 
other benefits including dearness allowance, house rent allowance, transport allowance, children education allowance, leave 
travel concession, medical facilities, CSD facility and other allowances/advances as per extant Govt. of India rules. The 
recruited candidates will be covered under National Pension System (NPS)/Unified Pension Scheme (UPS) as per extant 
Govt. of India rules. DRDO has beautiful well laid out green campuses with residential quarters, general amenities & sports 
facilities at most of the laboratories/establishments. The recruited candidates will be governed by the central government 
service rules. The personnel policies in DRDO are well laid down. The selected candidates shall be initially 
appointed on probation for a period of two years and are liable to serve anywhere within limits of Union of 
India including field locations/remote areas, as and when required, as per extant Govt. of India rules. These 
posts are covered under merit based Limited Flexible Complementing Scheme (LFCS) of DRTC for promotion 
to next higher grade.  
 
 
  
Candidates must submit their preferences for posting to various stations (refer codes in Section 1.3 d (ii)) and check in 
column of ‘Posting Station’ against the respective post code applied. The preference of posting to stations once submitted 
by the candidate will be treated as final. Subsequent request for change in preference will not be entertained under any 
circumstances. However, DRDO reserves its right to post the candidate anywhere in India depending upon Organisational 
requirement. Candidates are required to serve for a minimum of five years at the first place of posting and no 
request for transfer will be entertained during this period. However, they may be transferred to other 
stations in public interest by DRDO as per organisational need. 
 
   
 
Section-2: Service Conditions & Eligibility Criteria  
 
1.3 Important Points Pertaining to EQR  
 
2.1 Remuneration and Service Conditions 
2.2 Terms of Posting & Preferences of Posting Stations 

--- PAGE 7 ---

 
Page 7 of 20 
 
 
All eligibility conditions will be determined with reference to the crucial date of eligibility as mentioned in this 
advertisement.  
a) Nationality 
Only Indian Nationals need apply. 
b) Age Limit 
Candidate must be between 18-28 years of age, as on crucial date of eligibility i.e. 01.01.2026 (upper age limit 
relaxable as per extant Govt. of India rules). Date of birth as filled by the candidate in the online application form 
should be as per 10th /Matriculation Certificate and no subsequent request for change will be considered. 
c) Age Relaxation  
Age relaxation criteria for the following categories/communities in the table below are applicable, subject to submission 
of requisite certificates. 
 
Sr. No. Category Age Relaxation  
(In Years) 
1.  OBC-NON CREAMY LAYER (NCL) 3 
2.  SC / ST 5 
3.  PwBD + UR 10 
4.  PwBD + OBC-NON CREAMY LAYER (NCL) 13 
5.  PwBD + SC/ST 15 
6.  DEPARTMENTAL CANDIDATES WITH THREE YEARS CONTINUOUS 
SERVICE IN CENTRAL GOVERNMENT(FOR STA-B) 5 
7.  DEPARTMENTAL CANDIDATES WITH THREE YEARS CONTINUOUS 
SERVICE IN CENTRAL GOVERNMENT (FOR TECH-A) UPTO 40 YEARS 
8.  DEPARTMENTAL CANDIDATES WITH THREE YEARS CONTINUOUS 
SERVICE IN CENTRAL GOVERNMENT(SC / ST) (FOR TECH-A)  UPTO 45 YEARS 
9.  DEFENCE PERSONNEL WITH DISABILITY  3 
10.  DEFENCE PERSONNEL WITH DISABILITY(SC / ST) 8 
11.  
EX-SERVICEMEN (ESM) 
(TO BE RELEASED / DISCHARGED WITHIN ONE YEAR FROM CRUCIAL 
DATE OF ELIGIBILITY OF CEPTAM-11 ADVT) 
PERIOD OF 
MILITARY 
SERVICE PLUS 3 
YEARS 
12.  
WIDOW / DIVORCED WOMEN / WOMEN JUDICIALLY SEPERATED FROM 
THEIR HUSBANDS WHO ARE NOT REMARRIED  
(ONLY FOR TECH-A POSTS) 
UPTO 35 YEARS 
13.  
WIDOW / DIVORCED WOMEN / WOMEN JUDICIALLY SEPERATED FROM 
THEIR HUSBANDS WHO ARE NOT REMARRIED(SC / ST) 
(ONLY FOR TECH-A POSTS)  
UPTO 40 YEARS 
14.  MERITORIOUS SPORTSPERSON(MSP) (ONLY FOR TECH-A POSTS) 5 
15.  MERITORIOUS SPORTSPERSON(MSP) (SC / ST)  
(ONLY FOR TECH-A POSTS)  10 
i. Candidates belonging to PwBD, ESM categories, Departmental Candidates with three years continuous service in 
Central Government and Disabled Defence Services Personnel categories, who are applying against UR 
vacancies will get age relaxation benefit only for their respective category as above and no additional 
relaxation will be given for belonging to SC/ST/OBC-NCL category. 
ii. Refer DoPT O.M. dated 01.07.1998 which state “Candidates availing age relaxation/other concessions shall 
be considered only against reserved vacancies and will not be eligible for consideration under 
unreserved vacancies”. Hence, the candidates of reserved categories selected as per the same standards as 
unreserved candidates, without availing concessions, will be adjusted against unreserved seats. 
2.3 Eligibility Criteria 
 

--- PAGE 8 ---

 
Page 8 of 20 
 
iii. Performa for certificates to be used for claiming age relaxation may be downloaded (if required) from the DRDO 
website https://www.drdo.gov.in 
 
d) Disqualification  
No person shall be eligible for appointment who:  
i. has entered into or contracted a marriage with a person having a spouse living, or  
ii. having a spouse living, has entered into or contracted a marriage with any person,  
provided that the Government may, if satisfied that such marriage is permissible under the personal law applicable to 
such persons and the other party to the marriage and that there are other grounds for so doing, exempt any person 
from the operation of this rule.  
e) Medical Fitness 
Candidates must be in good mental and physical health and free from any physical deformity which may interfere in 
efficient discharge of duties. Provisionally shortlisted candidates will be subjected to a medical examination as 
prescribed by the competent authority, before the offer of appointment is issued. If a candidate is found unfit, he/she 
will not be offered an appointment. For PwBD candidates, medical fitness standards are as per extant Govt. of India 
rules.                                                                                                                                         
Candidates diagnosed with night blindness or colour blindness, as determined by the prescribed medical authority, 
shall be declared medically unfit for appointment to the post. Such candidates shall not be considered for selection 
or offered appointment, irrespective of their performance in any stage of the recruitment process. The decision of 
the designated Medical Board/Medical Officer regarding such visual defects shall be final and binding. The 
Standards of Visual Acuity are as follows:  
Distant Vision Near Vision 
Better Eye Worse Eye Better Eye Worse Eye 
6/6 Nil 
0.6 0.8 
OR 
6/12 6/12 
OR 
6/9 6/18 
When the age of the candidate at the time of first appointment is 35 years or more, the correct visual acuity will be 
reduced by one step as under- 
Distant Vision 
Better Eye Worse Eye 
6/9 Nil 
6/18 6/18 
6/12 6/24 
 
 
Reservation/ Relaxation benefits regarding age, qualifying criteria etc. are applicable to the SC/ST/OBC-
NCL/EWS/PwBD/ESM/MSP etc. candidates applying against vacancies earmarked for them, in accordance with the 
instructions/orders/circulars, as per extant Govt. of India orders.  
a) It may be noted that, candidature in reserved category will remain provisional till the veracity of the concerned 
documents are ascertained by the appointing authority. 
b) Candidates belonging to SC/ST/OBC-NCL/EWS/PwBD/MSP/ESM should upload a latest copy of Caste Certificate/other 
relevant certificate issued by the Competent Authority in the prescribed Performa which may be downloaded from the 
DRDO website https://www.drdo.gov.in as mentioned in Section 5.6. 
c) OBC(NCL) certificate should be issued by competent authority in central govt. prescribed format as in Annexure-II 
and also a self declaration in Format given at Annexure-III shall be uploaded by the candidate, stating that he/she 
“does not belong to creamy layer”. Otherwise, their claim for reservation (as OBC-NCL) will not be accepted and 
instead, they may be treated only as UR candidates, subject to fulfilment of all eligibility conditions. The caste/category 
of the candidates should have been included in the Central lists of Other Backward Castes. The OBC non-creamy layer 
certificate is required to be valid at the time of crucial date of eligibility of CEPTAM-11 advt. 
d) The benefit of reservation under EWS can be availed upon production of an Income and Asset Certificate issued by a 
competent authority as prescribed in the format at Annexure-IV and it should be valid on crucial date of eligibility of 
CEPTAM-11 advt.  
2.4 Reservation/Relaxation Benefits 

--- PAGE 9 ---

 
Page 9 of 20 
 
2.4.1 PwBD Category 
Candidates with physical disability of 40% or above only will be considered as person with benchmark disability (PwBD) and 
will be entitled to reservation and other relaxation as permissible as per extant Govt. of India PwBD rules. A candidate willing 
to avail the benefit of reservation would have to upload a Disability Certificate issued by a competent authority as per 
Performa at Annexure-V & Annexure-VI, as applicable (G.S.R.649(E);The Rights of Persons with Disabilities 
(amendment) rules, dated 16/10/2024).  
a) Provision in respect of Scribes  
i. In case of person with specified disabilities i.e. except blindness, locomotor disability (both arm affected-BA only) 
and cerebral palsy, the facility of scribe/reader/lab assistant will be allowed on production of a certificate to the 
effect that the person concerned has a functional limitation to write, caused by the specified disability and, 
therefore, a scribe is essential to write the examination on the candidate’s behalf. The certificate is to be issued after 
due medical examination by the Medical Authority as per Annexure-VIII. Refer F.No.P-13013/75/2023-
Policy-DD-III dated 01.08.25 for constitution of Medical Authority & other relevant information pertaining to 
conduct of competitive written Public examination for PwBD.  
ii. In case of person with disabilities in the category of blindness, locomotor disability (both arms only) and cerebral 
palsy, the facility of scribe/reader/lab assistant will be allowed, if so desired by the candidate, upon production of 
valid disability certificate/UDID card (Annexure-VII) without requirement of production of any medical 
certificate as per the performa at Annexure-VIII.  
b) For the facility of scribe, the following rules will apply 
i. Scribe has to be arranged by the candidate at his/her own cost, the details of whom are to be provided at the time 
of online application. Once the details of the scribe are provided, it is advisable not to change the scribe. However, 
in case of exigency, details of new scribe shall be provided to CEPTAM before issue of admit card, using link 
provided on DRDO website. CEPTAM reserves the right to object to a scribe identified by the candidate because of 
his/her not meeting eligibility.  
ii. If a candidate brings a different scribe other than the one previously informed, or the one provided at short notice 
(mentioned above), the scribe brought by the candidate shall be accepted only after the required 
certificates/undertaking (as Annexure-VIII & IX) are submitted by the candidate, and the scribe is found to fulfil 
the required qualifications.  
iii. Qualification of scribe must be a minimum of “two academic years below” and a maximum of “three academic 
years below” the minimum qualification for appearing in that examination. 
iv. Other conditions to be fulfilled by the scribe are as follows:- 
 The scribe shall not be a candidate for the examination in which the candidate is appearing. 
 The scribe for one candidate shall not act as scribe for any other candidate for the same examination. 
 Providing wrong information about the candidate/scribe in declaration form submitted at the time of online 
application or at the time of examination or at any stage would render the candidate and scribe being debarred 
permanently or for specified periods from all DRDO examinations. During the examination, at any stage, if it is 
found that scribe is independently answering the questions or prompting answers in any direct/indirect manner, 
the examination session will be terminated and candidate’s candidature will be cancelled. The candidature of such 
candidates using the services of a scribe will also be cancelled if it is reported by the test administrator/invigilator 
that the scribe independently answered the questions or prompted the answer in any direct/indirect manner. In 
such cases, the candidate and the scribe may also be debarred either permanently or for specified periods from all 
DRDO examinations. 
c) Compensatory Time 
i. “Compensatory time” shall be allowed for 20 minutes/hr of examination, for candidates with disabilities having 
functional limitations in writing as assessed by prescribed medical authority. 
ii. Only candidates registered for compensatory time (at the time of online registration) will be allowed such 
concessions. Compensatory time given to candidates is system based and hence, it shall not be possible for CEPTAM 
to allow such time if he/she is not registered for the same. Candidates not registered for compensatory time shall 
not be allowed such concessions. 
 
2.4.2 Ex-Servicemen (ESM)  
Ex-Servicemen will have to upload necessary equivalency certificate issued by Competent Authorities whenever the 
qualification acquired by them is different from the EQR of the posts advertised and applied for. 
a) Ex-Servicemen will have to submit a copy of Discharge Certificate in format as specified in Annexure-X(B) during 
document verification, duly indicating the Ex-service status. 

--- PAGE 10 ---

 
Page 10 of 20 
 
b) Ex-Serviceman who have already secured employment in civil side under Central Govt. in Group ‘C’ & ‘D’ posts on 
regular basis, after availing the benefits of reservation given to Ex-serviceman for their re-employment are not eligible 
for reservation in ESM category and not eligible for fee concession.  
c) If an Ex-Serviceman applies for various vacancies before joining a Civil employment, he/she can avail the benefit of 
reservation as Ex-Servicemen for any subsequent employment. However, to avail of this benefit, an ex-serviceman, as 
soon as he/she joins civil employment, should give self-declaration/undertaking to the concerned employer about the 
date-wise details of his application against this CEPTAM-11 Advt. The acknowledgement copy of this 
declaration/undertaking along with NOC from the civil employer and self-declaration as per Annexure-X(A) & (B), 
should be produced during document verification failing which their candidature shall stand cancelled.  
2.4.3 Meritorious Sportspersons (MSP) 
As per revised O.M. No. 1720781414772-Estt.(Estt.D) dated 04 March 2024 to DOPT M.O. No.14034/01/2013- Estt.(Estt.) 
dated 26.07.2017 Para-2, appointments under these orders can be made of sportspersons (for Group ‘C’ and erstwhile Group 
‘D’ as per extant Govt. of India Rules) considered meritorious with reference to the following criteria:  
a) Sportspersons who have represented a State or the country in the National or International competition; or Medal 
winners in Junior National Championships; or Medal winners in Khelo India Youth Games (age category above 18 
years); or Khelo India Winter Game; or Khelo India Para Games; or Medal winners in Khelo India University Games, or 
Medal winners in School Games Federation of India (SGFI) in any of the games/sports specified in the list as per 
Annexure-XII.  
For Chess: Grand Master (GM) Title, International Master (IM) Title, Chess Olympiad. IM/GM title should be in Open 
Category like Women Grandmaster (WGM) etc. While National Open Chess Championship is treated as National 
Championships, the medal winning performance in National Team Chess Championship will also be considered for 
recruitment. 
b) Sportspersons who have represented their University in the Inter-University Tournaments conducted by the Inter-
University Sports Boards in any of the sports/games specified in the list (Annexure-XII), as amended from time to 
time. 
c)  Sportspersons who have represented the State Schools Teams in the National Sports/Games for schools conducted by 
the All India School Games Federation in any of the games/sports mentioned in the list.  
Candidates who want to avail benefit of MSP reservation will have to upload the Certificate issued by a competent authority 
as per Annexure-XIII (A to E) as applicable. 
 
   
 
  
 
3.1.1 Payment of Application Fee 
Candidates are required to pay the prescribed fee as per the following categories: 
S.No. Post Candidate Category Application Fee  
(Non-Refundable) 
(A) 
*Refundable 
Fee (B) 
Total Fee to be Paid 
with  Application  
(A+B) 
1 STA -B 
UR/OBC/EWS/MSP 250/- 500/- 750/- 
Women/ SC/ST/PwBD/ 
#Ex-Servicemen Nil 500/- 500/- 
2 TECH-A 
General/OBC/EWS/MSP 100/- 500/- 600/- 
Women/ SC/ST/PwBD/ 
#Ex-Servicemen Nil 500/- 500/- 
Note #Ex-servicemen, who have already secured employment in civil side under Central Government on regular basis after 
availing of the benefits of reservation given to Ex-servicemen for their re-employment, are NOT eligible for fee waiver. Ex-
servicemen not eligible for fee waiver are required to pay fee according to their respective category. 
*Refundable Fee: An amount of Rs. 500/- shall be refunded only to those candidates who appear in Tier-I 
exam. 
3.1.2 Mode of Fee Payment: Fee is to be paid online through credit card/debit card/net banking/UPI. All applicable 
service charges i.e. bank charges shall be borne by Candidates.  
Section-3: Application Fee & How to Apply  
 
3.1 Application Fee and Mode of Payment  

--- PAGE 11 ---

 
Page 11 of 20 
 
Note  
a) Application fee (Non-Refundable amount) and other charges (as applicable), once paid will neither be refunded in any 
case/circumstances nor the same shall be held reserved for any other recruitment OR selection process. 
b) Refund will not be considered if a candidate does not appear for Tier-I exam. All  applicants are required to 
provide details of bank account in which refund is to be made (during filling of online application form). CEPTAM will 
not be held responsible for any issues arising in refund of the refundable fee as a result of incorrect entry 
of bank details by the Candidates. There will be no refund of fee for wrong/incomplete bank/beneficiary details and 
erroneous/incomplete/rejected applications. 
3.1.3 Correction of Application  
a) After the final submission of the online application, if a candidate wishes to further change or correct application details, 
he/she may do so only once by logging in. Window for correction of Application form will be opened after closing of 
online submission of application.  
b) The correction window will remain open from 04.01.2026 - 06.01.2026, 23:55 Hours. After this period, 
CEPTAM will not entertain any further request for correction of the information furnished in the application. 
c) No correction fee is required to be paid by candidates.    
   
 
 
3.2.1 Tier-I (CBT) 
Candidates are required to select any five different cities from the following list for appearing in Tier-I examination. 
However, candidates may choose a maximum of three cities from one state, in order of priority. Request for change of 
examination city/centre/shift will not be entertained. Hence, the candidates should select the city carefully during 
the filling of online application. Because of operational constraints, CEPTAM reserves the right to add/delete any examination 
city and/or allot the candidates to an examination city other than those chosen by the candidate. 
S.No. City Name S.No.  City Name S.No.  City Name 
01 AGRA 27 HAMIRPUR 53 NAGPUR 
02 AHMEDABAD 28 HAZARIBAGH 54 NAHARLAGUN 
03 AJMER 29 HUBBALLI (HUBLI) 55 NANDED 
04 AMBALA 30 HYDERABAD 56 NEW DELHI/NCR 
05 AMRAVATI 31 IMPHAL 57 PANAJI 
06 AMRITSAR 32 INDORE 58 PATIALA 
07 ARRAH 33 JABALPUR 59 PATNA 
08 ASANSOL 34 JAIPUR 60 PORT BLAIR 
09 BALASORE 35 JAMMU 61 PRAYAGRAJ 
10 BAREILLY 36 JAMSHEDPUR 62 PUNE 
11 BATHINDA 37 JHANSI 63 PURNEA 
12 BENGALURU 38 JODHPUR 64 RAIPUR 
13  BHAGALPUR 39 KANPUR 65 RANCHI 
14 BHOPAL 40 KOLHAPUR 66 ROURKELA 
15 BHUBANESWAR 41 KOLKATA 67 SIKAR 
16 BILASPUR (CHHATISGARH) 42 KOLLAM 68 SILIGURI 
17 CHENNAI 43 KOZHIKODE 69 SURAT 
18 CHHATRA PATI SAMBHAJI NAGAR 44 LEH 70 TEZPUR 
19 COIMBATORE 45 LUCKNOW 71 TIRUPATI 
20 DARBHANGA 46 MADURAI 72 UDAIPUR 
21 DHANBAD 47 MANGALURU(MANGALORE) 73 UJJAIN 
22 DIBRUGARH 48 MEERUT 74 VARANASI 
23 ERNAKULAM 49 MORADABAD 75 VIJAYAWADA 
24 GUWAHATI 50 MUMBAI MMR 76 VISAKHAPATNAM  
25 GWALIOR 51 MUZAFFARPUR 77 WARANGAL 
26 HALDWANI 52 MYSURU (MYSORE)   
 
 
3.2 Examination Cities  
 

--- PAGE 12 ---

 
Page 12 of 20 
 
3.2.2 Examination Cities for Tier-II (STA-B and TECH-A) examination and Trade Test (TECH-A) 
No choice of city will be entertained for the same. Cities for conduct of Tier-II exam and Trade test (for Technician A post) 
will be decided by CEPTAM based on operational requirement. 
 
 
 
General Instructions for submission of on-line application  
a) Candidates should possess a working mobile number and a valid & active personal email ID CEPTAM will not entertain 
any request for change of mobile number & email address at any stage of recruitment process.  
b) Candidates are advised to submit online applications much before the closing date and not to wait till last 
date, to avoid the possibility of network congestion or failure to login to the website on account of heavy 
rush/load on the website during the closing hours/days.  
c) CEPTAM will not be responsible, if candidates are not able to submit their applications within the last date due to the 
aforesaid reasons.  
d) Candidates must review their application before final submission.  
e) Candidates are required to make online payment of application fee.  
f) Eligibility of the candidate will be considered on the basis of the information furnished in the online application form and 
documents uploaded. Hence, candidates are advised to fill the application form carefully. 
g) All candidates must apply online through the link available on DRDO website (https://www.drdo.gov.in) under section 
“Offerings” and displayed at “Vacancies”. Clicking on the Hyperlink “Click here to apply”, shall redirect the 
applicant to the Online Application portal. 
h) Please read the instructions carefully available on Online Application Portal. 
i) Before starting to fill-up the application through online mode, the candidate should keep ready, the following 
details/documents: 
i. Valid e-mail ID & mobile number 
ii. Recent color Photograph(only .jpeg/.jpg format), 
iii. Scanned copy of the candidate’s signature(only .jpeg/.jpg format),  
iv. EQR certificates 
All required educational qualification certificates (as on crucial date of eligibility of CEPTAM-11 Advt.), should be kept 
ready for uploading the scanned copies (in true color) during filling of online application form (as applicable).  
v. Class Xth certificate 
To be uploaded for age proof 
vi. Certificates in support of reservation/relaxation i.e. SC/ST/OBC-NCL/EWS/PwBD/MSP/ESM, as 
applicable.   
vii. Active bank account details i.e. Name of Account holder, Account Number, Name of Bank and its IFSC code for 
online refund of application fee, as applicable. 
 
 
 
Candidates applying for more than one post code should submit their application, complete in all respects, separately for 
each post code paying separate fees. Candidates, who have applied for more than one post code, should be aware that 
centre for each examination may be different, and examination may be on the same day/shift. If the examinations are in 
two different shifts on the same day, it will be the candidate’s responsibility to reach the allocated centre on time. If the 
examination for two post codes applied by candidate is in the same shift, he/she will be able to appear in the examination of 
only one post code as per his/her choice. 
 
 
The date of examination will be published on DRDO website (https://www.drdo.gov.in). Information about city of 
examination will be provided around ten days prior to the date of examination on the website. Admit cards can be 
downloaded 2-3 days before the respective examination from the DRDO website. Admit cards will not be sent by post. 
If any candidate does not find his/her information regarding examination City/ Admit card on the DRDO website, he/she 
must immediately contact Help Desk (the details of which is provided at the end of this advertisement), with proof of 
having submitted his/her application. Failure to do so will deprive him/her of any claim for consideration of his/her 
3.3 How to Apply 
 
3.5 Date of Examination and Download of Admit Card 
 
3.4 Application for Multiple Posts  
 

--- PAGE 13 ---

 
Page 13 of 20 
 
candidature. Candidates must print (preferably in colour) the admit card and carry it for appearing in examinations. In 
addition to admit card, it is mandatory to carry at least two recent passport size colour photographs and a valid original 
Photo ID as mentioned in application form. If Photo ID does not have date of birth printed on it, then candidate must 
carry an additional original document (e.g. Matriculation Certificate, Marksheet issued only by CBSE/ICSE/State Boards etc.) 
as proof of their date of birth. Candidate must ensure that their date of birth mentioned in the application matches with 
the valid ID proof, failing which, the candidate will not be allowed to appear in the Computer Based Test (CBT). CEPTAM 
reserves the right to divert candidate of any centre to another centre due to operational constraints. CEPTAM will not 
entertain any request for any change in examination city, centre, date and shift allotted to candidate(s). Mere issue of admit 
card to the candidates will NOT imply that their candidature has been finally accepted by CEPTAM. 
 
 
 
 
 
a) The syllabus of the examinations will be as per educational qualification required for the post and published on DRDO 
website (https://www.drdo.gov.in) 
b) The medium for examination will be Hindi and English. 
c) The examinations (Tier-I & Tier-II) will be conducted in CBT (Computer Based Test) mode. 
*Performance of the candidate in Personality test will not be considered for his/her selection. Merit List for Tier-II 
examination will be prepared on the basis of candidate’s performance in Part II (subject-specific) of Tier-II examination only.     
  Table-1 (Examination Pattern for the post of STA-B) 
Tier Mode/Type of 
Examination Scope of Examination No of 
Questions 
Maximum 
Marks 
Duration 
of Exam 
(Mins.) 
I CBT for Screening Test common to all post-codes : 
General Science (40 Questions), 
General English (30 Questions), 
Quantitative Aptitude/General Maths 
(40 Questions), General Intelligence 
and Reasoning (40 Questions) 
150 150 120 
II CBT for 
Provisional 
Selection 
Part I: *Personality  Test Test will be of 20 minutes  
Part II: Test specific to subject of post-
code  120 120 120 
Table-2 ( Examination Pattern for the post of Technician-A) 
Tier Mode/Type of 
Examination Scope of Examination No of 
Questions 
Maximum 
Marks 
Duration 
of Exam 
(Mins.) 
I CBT for Screening Test common to all post-codes : General 
Science (40 Questions), General English 
(30 Questions), Quantitative 
Aptitude/General Maths (40 Questions), 
General Intelligence and Reasoning (40 
Questions) 
150 150 120 
II CBT for 
Provisional short 
listing for Trade 
Test 
Part I: *Personality Test  Test will be of 20 minutes  
Part II : Test specific to subject of post-
code  
120 120 90 
Trade Test (Qualifying in 
nature) 
Specific to trade/discipline  of post-code 
(Trade test will be of ITI level as per 
syllabus specified by DGT) in the related 
trade, to test the practical skills of the 
candidates. 
The duration of Trade Test may 
vary depending upon the trade. It 
will be mentioned in the admit 
card issued to candidates. 
Section-4: Examination Pattern, Selection Process & Document Verification 
 
4.1 Examination Pattern  
 

--- PAGE 14 ---

 
Page 14 of 20 
 
 
*Performance of the candidate in Personality test will not be considered for his/her selection. Merit List for Tier-II 
examination will be prepared on the basis of candidate’s performance in Part II (subject-specific) of Tier-II examination only.     
d) All sections of the question paper (for both Tier-I & Tier-II CBT) will be time bound. The question paper shall be divided 
into multiple sections, each with a specified time limit. Upon expiry of the allotted time for a section, it will be locked, 
automatically closed and the next section will appear. Candidates will not be permitted to revisit or modify responses in 
any section once its time has elapsed. Candidates must therefore complete all responses within the stipulated time for 
each section. 
e) For Tier-I & Tier-II (Part II) CBT exam, each question will carry 01 mark. There will be negative marking of 0.25 marks 
for each wrong answer in both Tier-I & Tier-II (Part II). Candidates are therefore advised to keep this in mind while 
answering the questions. 
f) Minimum qualifying marks for Tier-I test and Part II of Tier–II (Subject Specific Test) is 40% for UR/OBC/EWS candidates 
and 35% for SC/ST/PwBD candidates. 
g) SC, ST, OBC, EWS, ESM, MSP and PwBD candidates (wherever applicable), who are selected on their own merit without 
relaxed standards, will be considered against the unreserved vacancies as per Govt. of India orders.  
h) The reserved vacancies will be filled up separately amongst the eligible SC, ST, OBC, EWS, ESM, MSP and PwBD 
candidates (wherever applicable) as per extant rules of Govt of India. 
i) For more details, visit Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) section on DRDO website (https://www.drdo.gov.in) 
 
 
 
The selection process will consist of Tier–I and Tier-II examination as described in above Table-1:  
i. The Score of Tier-I and Tier-II (Part II) tests may be normalized as per requirement.  
ii. The Tier-I and Tier-II tests will consist of objective type-multiple choice questions only.  
iii. Tier-I test is for screening and Tier-II test is for provisional selection.  
iv. The mode of selection may change depending upon the organisational requirement/Govt of India policy for STA-B.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The selection process will consist of Tier–I & Tier-II examination and Trade Test as described in above Table-2:  
i. Trade Test will be conducted after Tier-II, to test the practical skills of the candidates and will be of ITI level in the 
related trade. The duration of Trade Test may vary depending upon the trade. 
ii. Trade test is qualifying in nature. It is mandatory for candidates to qualify in Trade Test. The minimum qualifying marks 
is 50% for UR/OBC/EWS candidates and 45% for SC/ST/PwBD candidates.                  
iii. The Score of Tier-I and Tier-II (Part II) tests may be normalized as per requirement.  
iv. The Tier-I and Tier-II tests will consist of objective type-multiple choice questions only.  
Screening Criteria  
i. The minimum qualifying marks for Tier-I and Part II of Tier-II is 40% for UR/OBC/EWS candidates and 35% for 
SC/ST/PwBD candidates. 
ii. Based on Tier-I examination merit, candidates will be provisionally shortlisted for Tier-II examination in the ratio 
of 1:10 (No. of vacancies: No. of shortlisted candidates) subject to the condition that they secure the minimum 
qualifying marks. All candidates lying on the cut off score will be provisionally shortlisted for Tier-II 
iii. However, above mentioned ratio may increase or decrease depending upon the organizational requirements.  
Provisional Selection Criteria for Recruitment 
Preliminary Document Scrutiny to assess the eligibility will be done before declaration of Tier-II result, based on the 
documents uploaded by the candidate during submission of online application. Preliminary document scrutiny will be 
done as per Tier II merit, till sufficient numbers of candidates are available for nominations. Based on Tier-II merit list, 
candidates found eligible after Preliminary Document Scrutiny, will be provisionally selected according to 
post/category/sub-category of the candidate and number of vacancies available.  
4.3 Selection Process for the post of Technician-A 
 
4.2 Selection Process for the post of STA-B 
 

--- PAGE 15 ---

 
Page 15 of 20 
 
v. Tier-I (Aptitude Test) is for screening & Tier-II (Part II: subject specific) is for provisional selection, provided the 
candidate successfully qualifies mandatory Trade Test.  
vi. The mode of selection may change depending upon the organisational requirement/Govt of India policy for Technician-
A posts.  
 
 
 
In cases where more than one candidate secures same aggregate score in Part II of Tier-II examination, such tie cases will 
be resolved by applying following criteria, in the following order, one after another, till the tie is resolved.  
For STA-B  
i. Normalised marks obtained in Tier-I examination.  
ii. Date of birth, older candidate being placed higher in merit list.               
iii. Alphabetical order in which the first names of the candidates appear in Merit list. 
For Tech-A 
i. DRDO trained apprentices.  
ii. Normalised marks obtained in Tier-I examination. 
iii. Date of birth, older candidate placed higher in merit list.               
iv. Alphabetical order in which the first names of the candidates appear in Merit list.  
      
 
 
 
 
Respective Answer keys of the Computer Based Examination will be published on the DRDO website 
(https://www.drdo.gov.in) after both Tier-I & Tier-II tests. Candidates may submit online representations, if any, within 7 
days of publication of the answer keys. Representations received through any other mode e.g. letter, application, email etc, 
will not be entertained. Representation regarding the Answer Keys will be scrutinized by experts before arriving at a final 
decision. Decision of the DRDO in this regard will be final. 
 
 
Screening Criteria  
i. Tier-I is for screening & Tier-II (Part-II) test is for Provisional short listing for trade test and preparing merit for 
provisional selection. The minimum qualifying marks for Tier-I and Part II of Tier-II is 40% for UR/OBC/EWS 
candidates and 35% for SC/ST/PwBD candidates. 
ii. Based on Tier-I examination merit, candidates will be provisionally shortlisted for Tier-II examination in a ratio 
of 1:15 (No. of vacancy: No. of shortlisted candidates) subject to the condition that, they secure minimum 
qualifying marks in Tier-I examination. 
iii. Based on Tier-II examination merit, candidates will be provisionally shortlisted and selected for Trade Test in 
a ratio of 1:8 (No. of vacancy: No. of shortlisted candidates) subject to the condition that they secure the 
minimum qualifying marks in Tier-II (Part-II) examination. 
iv. However, above mentioned ratios may increase or decrease depending upon the organizational requirements.   
v. All candidates lying on the cut off score will be provisionally short listed for Tier-II and Trade Test as applicable. 
vi.      It is to be noted that the schedule for Trade test will be available on DRDO website (https://www.drdo.gov.in) 
after declaration of Tier-II examination result. 
vii.      Exemption in Trade Test for DRDO apprentices. Candidate who have successfully completed apprenticeship 
in DRDO within the last 2 years (from the crucial date of eligibility of CEPTAM-11 advt) are exempted from 
appearing in Trade Test. 
Provisional Selection Criteria for Recruitment 
Preliminary Document Scrutiny to assess the eligibility will be done before declaration of Tier-II result, based on the 
documents uploaded by the candidate during submission of online application.  Preliminary Document Scrutiny will be 
done as per Tier II merit, till sufficient number of candidates are available for Trade test.  As per Tier II merit list, 
candidates found eligible after Preliminary Document Scrutiny and who qualify in Trade test will be 
provisionally selected according to post/category/sub-category of the candidate and number of 
vacancies available. 
4.5 Answer Keys 
4.4 Resolution of Tie Cases for Provisional Selection 

--- PAGE 16 ---

 
Page 16 of 20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a) Candidates will be issued admit card for Tier-I and Tier-II examination without scrutiny of their eligibility. Therefore, 
candidates are advised to ensure that they meet all eligibility criteria, to avoid rejection at later stage of selection 
process. Candidates are hence required to upload all necessary documents during submission of online application. 
b) Candidates who are found eligible as per documents uploaded will only be considered for Tier-II merit. 
c) It may be noted that Preliminary Document Scrutiny will be done by CEPTAM as per merit till sufficient number of 
candidates are available for nominations. It is reiterated that Preliminary Document Scrutiny will not be done for all 
candidates.  
d) It may also be noted that CEPTAM may choose to scrutinized documents of additional candidates as per requirement. 
e) Candidates are advised to follow instructions/announcements appearing in DRDO website pertaining to outcome of 
preliminary document scrutiny in DRDO website. 
 
 
 
Result of Tier-I, Tier-II and Trade Test examination will be published on DRDO website (https://www.drdo.gov.in).  
Provisionally selected candidate(s) will be nominated to the concerned DRDO Lab/Estt/Unit on the basis of number of 
vacancies projected against the advertised post code by various DRDO Labs/Estts/Units. Nomination shall be on the basis of 
merit of the candidates and preference of posting to stations submitted by the candidates during application. However, 
DRDO reserves the right to nominate & post candidates to any place in India depending upon organisational requirements. 
After document verification, offer of appointment will be issued by concerned Lab/Estt/Unit subject to candidate’s 
satisfying all eligibility criteria including antecedents and character.  
 
 
 
 
Document verification of nominated candidates will be done by concerned DRDO Lab/Estt/Unit prior to issue of appointment 
letter. During the document verification, candidates will have to produce all their original documents, in prescribed format 
(as applicable) mentioned in Section 5.6, along with two sets of self-attested photocopies of original documents as 
indicated below, failing which the candidature of such candidate will be cancelled.  
a) Matriculation/High School Examination Certificate or Equivalent certificate as Proof for Date of Birth (the candidate’s 
name and father’s/mother’s name mentioned in the application will also be verified with reference to the names 
mentioned in this certificate) 
b) Educational qualification certificate (as applicable) as proof of possessing the required educational qualification as on 
the crucial date of eligibility of CEPTAM-11 Advt., failing which the candidature of such candidate will be cancelled. 
c) SC/ST certificate should be issued by designated authority in the prescribed format and the particular community of the 
candidate should be included in the Presidential orders in relation to the concerned state (as per the format given in 
Annexure I), in order to claim benefits of reservation. 
d) OBC certificate should be issued by competent authority in the prescribed format with non-creamy layer certificate 
(Annexure II) and the caste/community of the candidate should be included in the Central lists of Other Backward 
Caste. OBC non-creamy layer certificate should be valid on crucial date of eligibility of CEPTAM-11 Advt. 
e) Persons with Benchmark Disabilities Certificate in required format, if applicable (See Section 2.4.1). 
f) EWS candidates are required to produce original valid Income & Asset Certificate (EWS Certificate) during Document 
Verification (as per the format given in Annexure IV) The certificate should be valid on crucial date of eligibility of 
CEPTAM-11 Advt. 
g) Relevant Certificate if seeking any age relaxation/reservation i.e. ESM, MSP etc., as applicable (See Sections 2.4.2 & 
2.4.3). 
h) Candidates serving in Govt., PSU, Autonomous organisations and Departmental candidates may apply 
online directly duly informing their employer and obtain NOC through proper channel. Shortlisted candidates should 
produce NOC as per Annexure-XI from the employer during document verification, failing which their candidature will 
be cancelled.  
4.6 Preliminary Document Scrutiny 
4.7 Nomination for Posting to Labs/Estts/Units 
4.8 Document Verification 

--- PAGE 17 ---

 
Page 17 of 20 
 
Note Candidates should note that in case a communication is received by DRDO from their employer, withholding 
permission to the candidates applying for/appearing in the examination/shortlisted for Document verification or at 
the time of empanelment/appointment, their application/candidature will be liable to be rejected/ cancelled. 
i) Ex-Servicemen candidates who secure employment after applying for this Advt. should give self-declaration to the 
concerned employer about the details of application against this Advt. as soon as they join. The acknowledgement copy 
of this declaration along with NOC from the employer should be produced during document verification (See Section 
2.4.2). 
j) A candidate claiming change in name after matriculation, on marriage or remarriage or divorce, etc, shall submit the 
following documents: 
i. In case of married women: Attested photocopy of Husband’s passport showing name of spouse or an attested 
copy of marriage certificate issued by the Registrar of Marriage or an Affidavit from husband and wife along with a 
joint photograph duly sworn before the Oath Commissioner; 
ii. In case of re-married women: Divorce Deed/Death certificate as the case may be in respect of first spouse; and 
attested photocopy of present husband’s passport showing name of spouse or an attested copy of marriage 
certificate issued by the Registrar of Marriage or an Affidavit from the husband and wife along with joint photograph 
duly sworn before the Oath Commissioner. 
iii. In case of divorced women: Certified copy of Divorce Decree and Deed Poll/Affidavit duly sworn before the Oath 
Commissioner  
iv. In other circumstances for change of name for both male and female; Deed Poll/Affidavit duly sworn before 
the Oath Commissioner and paper cuttings of two leading daily newspaper in original (One daily newspaper should 
be of the area of Candidate’s permanent and present address or nearby area) and Gazette Notification. 
k) Any other document specified in the nomination letter. 
Note  
i. Candidates are required to produce all relevant documents/ certificates in original at the time of document 
verification, failing which their candidature will be cancelled. 
ii. Candidates belonging to OBC-NCL/EWS should submit a copy of Category Certificate which should be issued 
by competent authority (Annexure-II & Annexure-IV) and valid as on the crucial date of eligibility of 
this CEPTAM-11 advt. 
iii. It is reiterated that after scrutiny of the certificates/documents of educational qualification/caste/category, etc., if 
any claim made in the application is not substantiated by certificates/documents at the time of document 
verification, candidature will be cancelled. 
 
 
 
 
 
a) Before applying, candidates are advised to carefully go through this Advertisement, Frequently Asked Questions 
(FAQs) and How to Apply available on DRDO website. 
b) Candidates are advised to note down the application number for future use.  
c) It is advised to candidates to take a printout of the application form and keep it with them. No printed copy of 
application is required to be sent to CEPTAM.  
d) Admit card would be available on DRDO website tentatively 2-3 days before the examination, which is required to be 
downloaded and printed for appearing in examination. Admit card shall be carried by the candidate for entry to 
examination venue. Admit card shall be carried by candidate for entry to examination hall. Admit card for examination will 
NOT be sent by CEPTAM by post. 
e) Recently updated Identity proof (ID), (e.g. Aadhaar, Passport, Voter ID, PAN, Driving License or photo bearing 
Govt. issued I.D. card) must be carried in original by candidate during the examination, document verification and 
whenever required. 
f) Candidates seeking reservation/relaxation benefits applicable for SC/ST/OBC-NCL/EWS/ESM/ MSP/PwBD/ Departmental 
Candidates with three years continuous service in Central Government/Widows/Divorced Women/Women Judicially 
Separated from their husbands who are not remarried etc. must ensure that they are entitled to such 
reservation/relaxation as per extant Govt. of India rules and are in possession of relevant certificate(s).  
g) Candidates must bring two passport size recent colour photographs; admit card & preferably same Photo ID’s in (as 
mentioned in application form) in original at examination centre. If Photo ID does not have date of birth printed on it, 
Section-5: Important Instructions for Candidates 
 
5.1 Instructions 

--- PAGE 18 ---

 
Page 18 of 20 
 
then candidate must carry an additional original document (e.g. Matriculation Certificate, Marksheet issued only by 
CBSE/ICSE/State Boards etc.) in proof of their date of birth. Candidate must ensure that their date of birth mentioned 
in the application matches with the valid ID proof, failing which, the candidate will not be allowed to appear in the 
Computer Based Test (CBT). 
h) Application will be accepted through ONLINE mode only. 
i) To familiarize with CBT process, candidates are advised to go through the mock test which will be available on website, 
tentatively 10 days prior to examination. 
j) Candidates will be required to provide biometric attendance & will be subject to frisking by HHMD (Hand Held Metal 
Detector) at examination centres.  
k) Contact details provided by candidates, such as e-mail and mobile number must be active throughout the 
recruitment process. Correspondence & permanent address must be correct and complete.  
l) Prohibited Items: Electronic gadgets like Mobile phones, Bluetooth devices, pen drive, laptops, camera, calculators, 
any other communication devices, wrist watches/fitness band, pen/pencil, debit/credit card, ornaments & jewellery 
(ring/chain/locket etc.), water bottle, wallets/purses, belts, shoes, metallic wears etc. and carrying any fire 
arms/weapons, objectionable items are strictly NOT allowed inside the exam hall. 
m) Cloak room arrangement for safe keeping of belongings may not be available at the exam venues. Therefore, candidates 
are advised not to bring any valuables/banned items including mobile phones etc. to the examination venue. 
n) Candidates may note that particulars provided by them in the online application will be considered as final after closing 
date of correction window.  
o) In case of fake/fabricated application/registration by misusing any name/photo of dignitaries/celebrity, such candidate 
will be held responsible for the same and liable for suitable legal action under Cyber/IT act.  
p) No Travelling Allowances is admissible to any candidates for appearing in the Examination/Trade Test/Document 
Verification.  
q) Candidates are advised to visit only official website of DRDO (https://www.drdo.gov.in) for any 
information & updates and be very cautious about fake websites, news, messages and job racketeers.  
r) Important: Caste/category status as on the crucial date of eligibility of CEPTAM-11 Advt. shall only be 
considered for reservation and related benefits as per eligibility. Any change in this status thereafter, shall not be 
entertained. Candidates are advised to ensure that they belong to the community (sub-caste)/category indicated in their 
application form and must substantiate this claim by uploading a valid certificate from the competent authority during 
submission of online application. 
s) DRDO has the right to withdraw or modify the advertisement/recruitment process at any stage.  
Note 
i. Candidates should ensure that they fulfil all the eligibility criteria for the post they are applying. Their candidature at all 
stages of the selection process will be purely provisional, subject to fulfilling prescribed eligibility criteria. If, on 
verification, at any stage during or after the selection process, it is found that, they do not fulfil any of the eligibility 
criteria, their candidature/appointment will be cancelled without prior notice, and no representation in this regard will be 
entertained under any circumstances.  
ii. Provisional short listing/selection at any stage of the process or success in the examination confers no right of 
appointment, unless the DRDO is satisfied, after such enquiry as may be considered necessary, that the candidate is 
suitable in all respects for appointment to the service/post.  
iii. The decision of DRDO in all matters related to eligibility, acceptance or rejection of the applications, mode of selection, 
conduct of examination(s), allotment of examination centres and nomination of provisionally shortlisted candidates to a 
specific lab/city will be final & binding on the candidates and no correspondence will be entertained in this regard. 
 
  
 
 
In accordance with the directions issued by DOPT vide its O.M. No.39020/1/2016-Estt. (B) Dated 21.06.2016, after 
declaration of result, DRDO will publish the scores/rankings of the qualified but not nominated candidates on the website in 
descending order of ranking. Accordingly, following details of the candidates will be made available on the website: (i) Name 
(ii) Father’s name (iii) Date of Birth (iv) Category & sub category (v) Gender (vi) Educational qualifications (vii) Total marks 
obtained in the qualifying examination (viii) Rank in merit (ix) Correspondence address (x) E-mail. However, at the time of 
filling up of application form, the candidate may exercise the option to opt out of public disclosure of the above details. 
5.2 Public Disclosure of Scores and Ranking of Candidates 

--- PAGE 19 ---

 
Page 19 of 20 
 
 
 
 
Misrepresentation, hiding or falsification of facts detected at any stage of the selection process will result in cancellation of 
candidature, without any notice, and no correspondence in this regard will be entertained. Candidates are warned that their 
candidature will be summarily cancelled at any stage of the recruitment, if found to have indulged in any of the following:  
a) Incidents of unfair means or offences. Any report  of unfair means or offences shall be dealt as per Chapter VI, VII, VIII 
of Public Examination (Prevention of Unfair Means) Rules, 2024.    
b) In possession of any prohibited item(s) as mentioned in Section 5.1 (l) within the premises of the examination centres. 
c) Involved in malpractices or using unfair means in the examination or involvement in any form with any plan/attempt to 
gain unauthorized access to or cause leakage of any question paper of CEPTAM-11 recruitment.  
d) Submitting fabricated documents or documents which have been tampered with.     
e) Making statements which are incorrect or false or suppressing material information.  
f) Impersonation.  
g) Resorting to any other irregular or improper means in connection with his/her candidature for the examination.  
h) Misconduct/Misbehaviour in any manner in the examination hall, with the invigilators, exam duty officials or DRDO 
representatives.  
i) Canvassing in any form or attempting to cause disruption of examination.  
j) Carrying any fire arms/weapons, objectionable items in to the examinations hall or during Trade Test/Document 
Verification etc.  
k) Sharing examination terminal through remote desktop software/Apps/LAN/WAN, etc.  
l) Attempt to hack or manipulate examination servers, data and examination systems at any point before, during or after 
the Examination.  
m) Damaging Examination related infrastructure/equipments. 
Note The defaulter candidate may be debarred permanently or for a specified period from future recruitments. Canvassing 
in any form will lead to disqualification. In addition to that, CEPTAM reserves the right to initiate legal action or lodge FIR 
against such candidates. Candidature can also be cancelled at any stage of the recruitment on any ground which the 
organisation considers to be the sufficient cause for such cancellation of candidature. 
  
 
 
Candidates are advised not to be entrapped by fraudulent recruitment advertisements and job offers being made by some 
unscrupulous elements by wrongly using DRDO name/logo. The official website of DRDO is www.drdo.gov.in which may be 
followed by the candidates for relevant information/notices etc.  
Any dispute in regard to CEPTAM-11 recruitment cycle will be subject to the courts/tribunals having jurisdiction over Delhi 
only. 
 
 
 
CAT= Category, CBT= Computer Based Test, CPC= Central Pay Commission, CSD= Canteen Store Department, EQR= 
Educational Qualification Requirement, ESM= Ex-Serviceman, EWS= Economically Weaker Section, Id= Identification with 
photo, MSP= Meritorious Sports Person, NOC= No Objection Certificate, NCL= Non-creamy layer, OBC= Other Backward 
Class, PSU= Public Sector Undertaking, PwBD= Person with Benchmark Disability, SC= Scheduled Caste, ST= Scheduled 
Tribe, UR= Unreserved. 
  
5.3 Action against Candidates Found Guilty of Misconduct 
5.4 Caution & Legal Jurisdiction 
5.5 Abbreviations 

--- PAGE 20 ---

 
Page 20 of 20 
 
 
 
S.No. Nomenclature Annexure 
a.  The format of certificate to be produced by SC & ST candidates applying for 
appointment to posts under the government of India 
Annexure-I 
b.  The format of certificate to be produced by Other Backward classes (NCL) 
candidates applying for appointment to posts under the government of India 
Annexure-II 
c.  The format of Declaration/Undertaking to be submitted by Other Backward Class 
candidates 
Annexure-III 
d.  The format of Income and Asset certificate to be produced by Economically 
Weaker Section (EWS) 
Annexure-IV 
e.  Form V Disability Certificate (In case of single disability) Annexure-V 
f.  Form VI Disability Certificate (In case of multiple disabilities) Annexure-VI 
g.  Form VII UDID card Annexure-VII 
h.  Certificate for recommendation of Scribe and/or Compensatory Time for persons 
with disabilities and have limitation in writing 
Annexure-VIII 
i.  Letter of undertaking by the persons with disabilities as defined under Section 2 
(s) of the RPwD Act, 2016 using the services of scribe 
Annexure-IX 
j.  Undertaking to be given by the Ex-Servicemen (ESM) Candidates Annexure-X(A) 
k.  The format of Certificate to be submitted by Ex-Servicemen Personnel regarding 
their employment from their Commanding Officer  
Annexure-X(B) 
l.  The format of certificate to be submitted by Central Govt Civilian 
Employees/Departmental candidates seeking age relaxation 
Annexure-XI 
m.  List of Games/Sports of meritorious sportspersons (No. DOPT-1720781414772) Annexure-XII 
n.  The format of Certificate to meritorious sportsperson for 
International/National/Inter-University/Education of the State/Khelo India 
competition 
Annexure-XIII   
(A-E) 
 
 
 
  Help Desk  No:022-61087530 between Monday to Friday 
(During 10 am to 5 pm)  
 Help Desk Tab in Online Application Portal 
 
5.6 All relevant forms/formats are also available on DRDO website https://www.drdo.gov.in 
 
CONTACT US 

--- PAGE 21 ---

 Annexure-I 
(The format of certificate to be produced by Scheduled Caste & Scheduled Tribe candidates 
applying for appointment to posts under the Government of India) 
A Candidate who claims to belong to one of the Scheduled Caste or the Scheduled Tribes should 
submit in support of his claim  an attested/certified copy of a certificate in the form given 
below, from the District Officer or the Sub -Divisional officer or  any other officer as indicated 
below of the District in which his parents (or surviving pa rent) ordinarily reside who has been  
designated by the State Government concerned as competent to issue such a certificate. If both 
his parents are dead, the officer  signing the certificate should be of the district in which the 
candidate himself ordinaril y resides otherwise than for the purpose  of his own education. 
Wherever photograph is an integral part of the certificate, the Commission would accept only 
attested photocopies of such certificates and not any other attested or true copy. 
This is to certif y that Shri/Shrimati/Kumari* ____________________son/daughter of  
______________________village/town/*in District/Division*_____________________ of the 
State/Union Territory* 
_____________________________belongs to the Caste/Tribes_____________________ whic h 
is recognized as a Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes* under:- 
The Constitution (Scheduled Castes) order, 1950 
The Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) order, 1950 
The Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Union Territories order, 1951* 
The Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Union Territories Order, 1951* 
As amended by the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Lists (Modification) order, 1956, the 
Bombay Reorganization Act,  1960 & the Punjab Reorganization Act , 1966, the State of 
Himachal Pradesh Act 1970, the North Ea stern Area  (Reorganization) Act 1971 and the 
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Order (Amendment) Act, 1976. 
The Constitution (Dadra and Nagar Haveli) Scheduled Castes order 1962 
The Constitution (Dadra and Nagar Haveli) Scheduled Tribes order 1962 @ 
The Constitution (Pondicherry ) Scheduled Castes Order 1964@ 
The Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) (Uttar Pradesh) order, 1967@ 
The Constitution (Goa, Daman & Diu) Scheduled Castes order, 1968@ 
The Constitution (Goa , Daman & Diu )Scheduled Tribes order, 1968@ 
The Constitution (Nagaland) Scheduled Tribes Order, 1970@ 
The Constitution (Sikkim) Scheduled Caste Order 1978@ 
The Constitution (Sikkim) Scheduled Tribes Order 1978@ 
The Constitution (Jammu & Kashmir) Scheduled Tribes Order 1989@ 
The Constitution (Jammu & Kashmir) Scheduled Caste Order 1956@ 
The Constitution (SC) orders (Amendment) Act, 1990@ 
The Constitution (ST) orders (Amendment) Ordinance 1991@ 
The Constitution (ST) orders (Second Amendment) Act 991@ 
The Constitution (ST) orders (Amendment) Ordinance 1996 
The Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes Orders (Amendment) Act, 2002 
The Constitution (Scheduled Caste) orders (Amendment) Act, 2002 
The Constitution (Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes) orders (Amendment) Act, 2002 
The Constitution (Scheduled Caste) orders (Amendment) Act, 2007. 
% 2. Applicable in the case of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes persons who have migrated 
from one State/Union Territory Administration. 

--- PAGE 22 ---

This Certificate is issued on the basis of the Scheduled Castes/ Scheduled Tribes ce rtificate 
issued to Shri/Shrimati _________  __Father/ mother Sh./Smt.______________________of 
village____________________Distt._______________Division*_____________ of the 
State/Union Territory* _______________________ who belong to the _________Caste/Tribe 
which is recognized as a Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe in the State/Union/Territory* issued 
by __________________dated_______________. 
%3 Sh./Smt./Kumari and /or* his /her family ordinarily reside(s) in village/town* 
________________ of ___________________ District/Division*_________________________ 
of the State/Union Territory of________________________________. 
 
 
Place __________                      Signature ________________ 
Date__________              ** Designation ________________ 
(with seal of office) 
 
* Please delete the words which are not applicable 
@ Please quote specific presidential order 
% Delete the paragraph which is not applicable 
NOTE: The term ordinarily reside(s) used here will have the same meaning as in section 2 0 of 
the Representation of the People Act, 1950. 
**List of authorities empowered to issue Caste /Tribe Certificates: 
(i) District Magistrate/Additional District Magistrate/Collector/Deputy Commissioner/Additional 
Deputy Commissioner/Dy. Collector/ Ist  Class Stipendiary Magistrate /Sub -Divisional 
Magistrate/Presidency Magistrate/Extra-Asst Commissioner/ Taluka Magistrate / Executive 
Magistrate. 
(ii) Chief Presidency Magistrate/Additional Chief Presidency Magistrate/Presidency Magistrate. 
(iii) Revenue Officers not below the rank of Tehsildar. 
(iv) Sub-Divisional Officers of the area where the candidate and/or his family normally resides.  
NOTE: ST candidates belonging to Tamil Nadu state should submit caste certificate ONLY FROM 
THE REVENUE DIVISIONAL OFFICER.  
  

--- PAGE 23 ---

 Annexure-II 
(Format of certificate to be produced by Other Backward Classes (NCL) candidates applying 
for appointment to posts under the government of india.) 
 (G-1 Dept of per. & Trg. OM NO 36033/28/94-Estt. (Res), dated 2-7-1997) 
This is to certify that Shri/Smt./Km.*______________Son/daughter/wife of 
Sh./Smt.*________________________ of  village/town________________________ 
District/Division _____________in the ____________________ state belongs to  the 
__________________ community which is recognized as a backward class under: 
i) Resolution No. 12011/68/93-BCC dated the 10th September, 1993, published in the Gazette of India Extraordinary- 
Part I , Section I, No.186 dated 13th September, 1993. 
ii) Resolution No. 12011/9/94-BCC, dated 19.10.1994 published in Gazette of India extraordinary Part I Section I No. 
163, dated 20th October1994 
iii) Resolution No. 12011/7/95-BCC, dated the 24th May 1995 published in the Gazette of India extraordinary Part I 
Section I No. 88, dated 25th May, 1995. 
iv) Resolution No. 12011/96/94-BCC dated 9th March, 1996 
v) Resolution No. 12011/44/96-BCC, dated the 6th December, 1996 published in the Gazette of India extraordinary 
Part I Section I No. 210, dated the 11th December 1996. 
vi) Resolution No. 12011/13/97-BCC dated 3rd December, 1997 
vii) Resolution No. 12011/99/94-BCC dated 11th December, 1997 
viii) Resolution No. 12011/68/98-BCC dated 27th October, 1999 
ix) Resolution No. 12011/88/98-BCC, dated the 6th December, 1999 published in the Gazette of India extraordinary 
Part- I Section I No. 270 dated 6th December 1999 
x) Resolution No. 12011/36/99-BCC, dated 4th April ,2000 published in the Gazette of India extraordinary Part- I 
Section I No.71 dated 4th April 2000. 
xi) Resolution No. 12011/44/99-BCC, dated 21.9.2000 published in the Gazette of India extraordinary Part- I Section 
I No. 210 dated 21.09.2000. 
xii) Resolution No. 12015/9/2000-BCC dated 06/09/2001 
xiii) Resolution No. 12011/1/2001-BCC dated 19/06/2003 
xiv) Resolution No. 12011/4/2002-BCC dated 13/01/2004 
xv) Resolution No. 12011/9/2004-BCC dated 16/01/2006 published in the Gazette of India Extraordinary Part I 
Section No. 210 dated 16/01/2006. 
xvi) Resolution No. 12011/14/2004-BCC dated 12/03/2007 published in the Gazette of India Extraordinary Part I 
Section No. 67 dated 12/03/2007. 
xvii) Resolution No. 12015/4/2007-BCC dated 18/08/2010 
xviii) Resolution No. 12015/13/2010-BCC dated 08/12/2011 
Shri/Smt/Km___________________________________________________ and/or his/ her 
family ordinarily reside(s) in the  ______________ District/ Division of the 
__________________State. This is also to certify that he/she does not belong to the 
persons/sections (Creamy Layer) mentioned in Column 3 of the Schedule to the Government of 
India. Depar tment of Personnel  and Training O.M. No. 36012/22/93 -Estt. (SCT) dated 
08/09/1993. and modified vide Government of India, Department of  Personnel & Training  OM 
No. 36033/3/2004- Estt(Res) dated 14/10/2008 or the latest notification of the Government of 
India. 
 Dated: 
District Magistrate/ Deputy Commissioner/ Competent Authority Seal 
 
*Strike out whichever is not applicable 
Note: (a) The term ‘Ordinarily’ used here will have the same meaning as in Section 20 of the Representatio n of the people act 
1950, (b) The authorities competent to issue caste certificates are indicated below: 
(i) District Magistrate/additional Magistrate /Collector/Deputy Commissioner/additional deputy Commissioner/Deputy 
Collector/first Class Stipendiary Magistrate/Sub-Divisional Magistrate/Taluka Magistrate /Executive Magistrate /Extra 
Assistant Commissioner (not below the rank of First Class Stipendiary Magistrate) (ii) Chief Presidency Magistrate /additional 
Chief Presidency Magistrate /Presidency Magistrate (iii) Revenue Officer not below the rank of Tehsildar; and (iv) Sub 
Divisional Officer of the area where the candidate and/or his family resides.   

--- PAGE 24 ---

Annexure-III 
Form of Declaration/Undertaking to be submitted by OBC candidate 
(In addition to the community certificate) 
 
“I, ________________ Son/Daughter of Shri _________________ resident of village/town/city 
____________ district ________________ State __________________ hereby declare that I 
belong to the  _________  community which is recognized as a backward class by t he 
Government of India for purpose of reservation in services as per orders contained in 
Department of Personnel and Training Office Memorandum No. 36012/22/93-Estt. (SCT) dated 
08/09/1993. It is also declared that I do not belong to persons/sections (Crea my Layer)  
mentioned in Column 3 of the Schedule to the above ref erred Office Memorandum dated 
08/09/1993 and its subsequent revision through O.M.No.36033/1/2013 and 13/09/2017.” 
 
 
Place:             Signature of Candidate: 
Date:            Name of Candidate: 
            Registration No.: 
Correspondence Address: 
Mobile No.: 
  
  

--- PAGE 25 ---

Annexure-IV 
Format of Income & Asset Certificate to be Produced by Economically Weaker Sections 
Government of _________________ 
(Name & Address of the authority issuing the certificate) 
Certificate No. ________________      Date ___________ 
VALID FOR THE YEAR _______________ 
 
1. This is to certify that Shri/Smt./Kumari _________________________ son/daughter/wife of 
______________  permanent resident of __________________________ _______  Village/Street 
________________ Post Office _________________________ District ___________________ in the 
State/Union Territory _____________________ Pin Code _________________ whose photograph is 
attested below belongs to Economically Weaker Sect ions, since the gross annual income* of his/her 
family** is below Rs. 8 Lakh (Rupees Eight Lakh only) for the financial year _____________ His/her 
family does not won or possess any of the following assets***: 
I. 5 acres of agricultural land and above; 
II. Residential flat of 1000 sq. ft. and above; 
III. Residential plot of 100 sq. yards and above in notified municipalities; 
IV. Residential plot of 200 sq. yards and above in areas other than the notified municipalities 
2. Shri/Smt./Kumari ____________________ belongs to the _ ______________ caste which is not 
recognized as a Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and Other Backward Classes (Central List). 
 
Signature with seal of Office ___________________________ 
Name ___________________________ 
Designation ______________________ 
 
 
 
*Income covered all sources i.e. salary, agriculture, business, profession etc. 
**The terms ‘Family’ for this purpose include the person, who seeks benefit of reservation, his/her 
parents and siblings below the age of 18 years as also his/her spouse and children below the age of 18 
years. 
***The property held by a “Family” in different locations or different places/cities have been clubbed 
while applying the land or property holding test to determine EWS status.  
Note : The authority competent to issue cast certificates are indicated below: 
a) District Magistrate/Additional District Magistrate/Collector/Deputy Commissioner/Additional Deputy 
Commissioner/1st Class Stipendiary magistrate/Sub -Divisional Magistrate/Taluka Magistrate/Executive 
Magistrate/Extra Assistant Commissioner  
b) Chief Presidency Magistrate/Additional Chief Presidency Magistrate/ Presidency Magistrate. 
c) Revenue Officer not below the rank of Tahsildar and  
d) Sub-Divisional Officer of the area where the candidate and / or his family normally resides. 
  
Passport size 
attested 
photograph of the 
applicant 

--- PAGE 26 ---

Annexure-V 
Form V Disability Certificate 
(In case of Single Disability) 
 (Name and Address of the Medical Authority issuing the Certificate) 
 
 
 
 
Certificate/UDID No.         Date:  
 
This is to certify that I/we have carefully examined Shri ./Smt./Kum. _________________ 
Son/Wife/Daughter/Care of Shri./Smt. ________________ Date of Birth (DD/MM/YY) 
________________ Age ____________ years, male/female ____________ Registration No. 
__________________ Resident of _________________________________, whose photograph 
is affixed above, and I am/we are satisfied that: 
(A) He/she is a case of (Any of the following disabilities): 
i. Locomotor disability 
ii. Muscular Dystrophy 
iii. Leprosy Cured 
iv. Dwarfism 
v. Cerebral Palsy  
vi. Acid Attack Victim 
vii. Low Vision 
viii. Blindness  
ix. Hearing Impairment 
x. Speech and Language Disabilities 
xi. Autism Spectrum Disorder 
xii. Mental Illness 
xiii. Chronic Neurological Conditions 
xiv. Multiple Sclerosis 
xv. Parkinson’s Diseases 
xvi. Haemophilia 
xvii. Thalassemia 
xviii. Sickle Cell Disease 
(B) Name of affected body part: 
Recent passport 
size attested 
photograph 
(Showing face 
only) of the 
person with 
disability 

--- PAGE 27 ---

(C) The diagnosis in his/her case is _________________________ 
(D) He/she has _________ % (in figure) ______________________ percent (in words) disability and 
the nature of assessing the extent of specified disability in a person included under the Rights of 
Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 notified by Government of India vide <Notification No> dated 
___________.   
 
Signature/thumb impression of the Person with Disability: 
Signature of notified Medical Authority Member(s) 
Signature: 
Name and Address of Medical Authority Issuing the Certificate 
 
Logo of Government on 
India 
Logo of Department 
of Empowerment of 
Persons with 
Disabilities, GoI 
Logo of Respective State or Union 
Territory 
 
 
  

--- PAGE 28 ---

 
Annexure-VI 
 
Form VI Disability Certificate (In case of multiple disabilities) 
 (Name and Address of the Medical Authority Issuing the Certificate) 
 
                      
 
 
 
 
Certificate/UDID No.            Date of Issue: 
 
This is to certify that we have carefully examined Shri ./Smt./Kum.____________________ 
Son/Wife/Daughter/Care of Shri ./Smt. __________________________ Date of Birth (DD/MM/YY) 
___________Age _________ years, Gender _______________, Registration No. ________________ 
Resident of _________________________________, whose photograph is affixed above, and am 
satisfied that: 
A) He/she is a case of Multiple Disability. His/her extent of physical impairment s/disabilities have 
been evaluated as per guidelines for the purpose of assessing the extent of specified disability in 
a person included under the Rights of Persons with Di sabilities Act, 2016 notified by 
Government of India vide <Notification No> dated ___________ for the disabilities below:  
S. No. Disability Name of 
Affected body 
part  
Diagnosis Disability 
Percentage 
1. Locomotor Disability    
2. Muscular Dystrophy    
3. Leprosy Cured     
4. Dwarfism     
5. Cerebral Palsy    
6. Acid attack Victim    
7. Low Vision    
8. Blindness     
9. Hearing Impairment    
10. Speech and Language 
disability 
   
11. Intellectual Disability    
Recent passport 
size attested 
photograph 
(Showing face only) 
of the person with 
disability 

--- PAGE 29 ---

12. Specific Learning Disability    
13. Autism Spectrum Disorder    
14. Mental illness    
15. Chronic Neurological 
Condition 
   
16. Multiple Sclerosis    
17. Parkinson’s Disease    
18. Haemophilia    
19. Thalassemia    
20. Sickle Cell Disease    
(Note: Only the disabilities diagnosed will be listed) 
(B) He/She has _____________________% (in  figure)______________ percent (In words ) overall 
disability and the nature of certificate is (permanent/temporary) and valid till date __________.  
 
Signature/thumb impression of the Person with Disability:  
Signature of notified Medical Authority Members: 
 
Signature: 
Name and Address of Medical Authority Issuing the Certificate 
 
  

--- PAGE 31 ---

 
Annexure-VIII 
Certificate for recommendation of Scribe  and/or Compensatory Time for persons with 
disabilities as defined under Section 2 (s) of the RPwD Act, 2016 and have limitation in writing 
as specified in the Guidelines. 
 
This is to verify that, we have examined Mr/Ms/Mrs ____________ ( name of candidate ), S/o / D/o 
___________________________ a resident of ____________________ (Vill/PO/PS/District/State),  aged 
______________ yrs, a person w ith ____________________ (nature of disability/condition), and to 
state that he/she has limitation which hampers his/her writing capability owing to his/her above 
condition. He/she requires support of scribe for writing the examination. 
2. The above candid ate uses aids and assistive device such as prosthetics & orthotics, hearing aid 
(name to be specified) which is/are essential for the candidate to appear at the examination with th e 
assistance of scribe. 
3. This certificate is issued only for the purpose o f appearing in written examinations conducted by 
examining Bodies and is valid up to _____________ (it is valid for maximum period of one year or less as 
may be certified by the medical authority) 
 
 
Signature of medical authority 
 
 
Name of Government Hospital/Health Care Centre with Seal 
Place: 
Date: 

--- PAGE 32 ---

            Annexure-IX  
 
Letter of undertaking by the person s with disabilities as defined  under Section 2 (s) of the 
RPwD Act, 2016 using the services of scribe during written examinations conducted by 
various authorities as specified in the Guidelines. 
 
I _______________________, a candidate with ___________________ (na ture of the 
disability/condition) appearing for the ________________________ (name o f the examination) bearing 
Roll No .__________ at ____________________ (name of the centre) in the District 
___________________, _____________(name of the State ). My qualification is 
_________________________. 
 
2. I do hereby state that ____________________ ________ (name of the scribe) will provide the 
service of scribe for the undersigned for taking the afore mentioned examination. I further declare that 
there is no conflict of interest of any kind that may affect the impartiality of the examination. 
 
3. I do hereby undertake that his/her qualification is ____________________. In case, subsequently it 
is found that his/her qualification is not as declared by the undersigned and is beyond the specified 
qualification for examination as mentioned in the extant Guidelines. I shall forfeit my right to the 
post/position/academic seat I am competing for and claims relating thereto. 
 
 
(Signature of the candidate) 
 
(counter - signature by the parent/guardian, if the candidate is minor) 
 
Place: 
Date: 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 33 ---

 Annexure-X(A) 
Undertaking to be given by the Ex-Servicemen Candidates 
 
I _____________________ bearing Roll No __________________ appearing for the Document 
Verification of the ______________________ Examination, 20 ____,  
I undertake that, if selected on the basis of recruitment/ examination to which the application 
relates, my appointment will be subject to my producing documentary evidence to the 
satisfaction of the Appointing Authority that I have been duly released/retired/ discharged from 
the Armed Forces and that I am entitled to the benefits admissible to Ex-Servicemen in terms of 
the Ex -Servicemen (Reemployed  in Central Civil Services and posts rules, 1979, as mentioned 
from time to time). 
I also understand that I shall not be eligible to be appointed to a vacan cy reserved for Ex -S in 
regard to  the recruitment covered by this examination, if I have at any time prior to such 
appointment, secured any employment on the civil side (including Public Sector Undertakings, 
Autonomous Bodies/Statutory Bodies, Nationalized Banks, etc.) by availing of the concession of 
reservation of vacancies admissible to Ex-S. 
I further furnish the following information: 
a) Date of appointment in Armed Forces : ____________________ 
b) My last Unit/Corps : ____________________ 
c) Length of Service in Armed Forces : ____________________ 
d) Date of discharge : ____________________ 
e) If serving, the date of discharge shall be within one year from the date of publication of 
     CEPTAM-11 Advertisement. 
 
 
 
Place:          (Signature of the Candidate) 
Date:          Name: 
Rank: 
  

--- PAGE 34 ---

Annexure- X(B) 
Format of Certificate to be submitted by Ex-Servicemen Personnel regarding their 
employment from their commanding officer  
1. It is informed that Shri/Smt/Kumari ____________________ working as ______ _______ (Rank) 
in __________ unit/office has applied for the post of ___________ _________ against CEPTAM -11 
Advertisement dated __________. 
 
2. I, hereby, with the information available,  certify in respect of Shri/Smt/Kumari  ___________ 
Number ____________, working as __________________ (Rank) as follows: 
 
a) He /she will be completing/has completed/has completed period of engagement of ______ 
years (in words __________________________________) for acquiring Ex -servicemen sta tus, 
subject to fulfillment of other conditions on ____________________ (date). 
b) He/she complete ___________ years of service (in words _________________________) on 
the date of issue of this certificate and __________ years (in words __________________)  at 
the discharge from Army/Airforce/Navy service. 
c) He/she is likely to complete his/her engagement and discharge from serv ice on the 
______________ (date in DD/MM/YYYY format). 
d) He/she will be release on selection to the post. 
 
 
 
Place:               Signature:…………………………….  
Date:               Commanding Officer Name: 
 Designation/Appointment/Unit: 
    Office Seal 
  
  

--- PAGE 35 ---

Annexure-XI 
 
FORMAT OF CERTIFICATE TO BE SUBMITTED BY CENTRAL GOVERNMENT CIVILIAN 
EMPLOYEES/DEPARTMENTAL CANDIDATES SEEKING AGE-RELAXATION 
(To be filled by the Head of the Office or Department in which the candidate is working) 
 
 
It is certified that *Shri/Smt./Km.________________________________ is a Central 
Government Civilian employee and is holding the post of _____________ _______________ in 
the pay scale of Rs. __________________ with 3 years regular service in the grade as on crucial 
date of eligibility of CEPTAM-11 Advertisement. 
 
There is no objection to his/her appearing for Examination 20____. 
 
 
 
Signature _______________________ 
      Name ___________________ 
 
Office Seal  
Place  
Date:   
 
(*Please delete the words which are not applicable) 
  

--- PAGE 36 ---

Annexure-XII 
List of Games/Sports of meritorious sportspersons (No. DOPT-1720781414772) 
 
No. Name of Sport No. Name of Sport No. Name of Sport No. Name of Sport 
1.  Archery 18. Equestrian 35. Motor Sports 53. Taekwondo 
2.  Atheletics 19. Fencing 36. Net Ball 54. Tennis-Koit 
3.  
Atya-Patya 
20. 
Football 
37. Para Sports (for 
sports discipline 
included in para  
Olympics and Para 
Asian Games) 
55. 
Tennis 
4.  Badminton 21. Golf 38. Pencak Silat 56. Tennis Bowling 
5.  Ball-Badminton 22. Gymnastics 39. Polo 57. Triathlon 
6.  Baseball 23. Handball 40. Powerlifting 58. Tug-of-war 
7.  Basket Ball 24. Hockey 41. Shooting 59. Volleyball 
8.  Billiards & 
Snookers 
25. Ice-Hockey 42. Shooting Ball 60. Weightlifting 
9.  Body-Building 26. Ice-Skating 43. Roll Ball 61. Wushu 
10.  Boxing 27. Ice-Skiing 44. Roller Skating 62. Wrestling 
11.  Bridge 28. Judo 45. Rowing 63. Yachting 
12.  Carrom 29. Kabaddi 46. Rugby 64. Tennis Ball Cricket 
13.  Chess 30. Karate 47. Sepak Takraw 65. Yogasan 
14.  Cricket 31. Kayaking & 
Canoeing 
48. Soft Ball  
15.  Cycling 32. Kho-Kho 50. Soft Tennis 
16.  Cycle Polo 33. Kudo 51. Squash 
17.  Deaf Sports 34. Mallakhamb 52. Table Tennis 
 
  

--- PAGE 37 ---

Annexure-XIII (A) 
 (For representing India in an International Competition in one of the recognized Games/Sports) 
NATIONAL FEDERATION/NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF ______________________ 
Certificate to meritorious sportsmen for employment to Group C & D  
Service under the Central Government 
Certified that Sh./Smt./Kumar ___________________ son/daughter/wife of Shri ______________  
resident of ______________________ ________ (complete address) represented the country in the 
game/event of ______________________________________ in ______________________________ 
competition/Tournament held at ____________________ from _______________________________ 
to ____________________________________________________________. 
 
The position obtained by the  individual/team in the above said Competition/Tournament was 
______________________________________________________________________________. 
The Certificate is being given on the basis of record av ailable in the office of State Association of 
___________________________________________________________. 
 
 
Place ______________________________   Signature _______________________ 
Date ___________________________    Name _____________________ 
Designation ___________________ 
Name of the Federation/National Association __________________ 
    Address _______________________ 
Seal _________________ 
 
Note: This Certificate will be valid only when signed personally by the Secretary, National 
Federation/National Association 
(Annexure B of the Department of Personnel and  Administrative Reforms O.M. No. 14015/1/78 -Estt 
(D) dated 4th August, 1980) 

--- PAGE 38 ---

Annexure- XIII (B) 
 (For representing a State of India in a National Competition in one of the recognized Games/Sports) 
STATE ASSOCIATION OF ______________________ IN THE GAME ___________ OF _______ 
Certificate to meritorious sportsmen for employment to Group C & D 
 Service under the Central Government 
Certified that Sh./Smt./Kumar ___________________ son/daughter/wife of Shri  ______________ and 
resident of _______________________ (complete address) represented the State of __________in the 
game/event of ______________________________________ in the National competition/Tournament 
held at ____________________ from ____________ to ___________________________________. 
 
The position obtained by the individual/team in the above said Competition/Tournament was 
______________________________________________________________________________. 
The Certificate is being given on the basis of record available in the office of State Association of 
___________________________________________________________. 
 
 
Place ______________________________   Signature _______________________ 
Date ___________________________    Name _____________________ 
Designation ___________________ 
    Name of the State Association __________________ 
    Address _______________________ 
Seal _________________ 
 
Note: This Certificate will be valid only when signed personally by the Secretary of the State Association. 
 
(Annexure B of the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms O.M. No. 14015/1/78 -Estt 
(D) dated 4th August, 1980) 
  

--- PAGE 39 ---

Annexure- XIII (C) 
 (For representing a University in the Inter-University Competition in one of the recognized 
Games/Sports) 
UNIVERSITY OF_____________________________________ 
Certificate to meritorious sportsmen for employment to Group C & D  
Service under the Central Government 
 
Certified that Sh./Smt./Kumari  ___________________ son/daughter/wife of S hri ______________ and 
resident of _______________________ (complete address) student of __________________    
represented the University of __________in the game/event of 
______________________________________ in the Inter -University competition/Tournament hel d at 
____________________ from ____________ to ___________________________________. 
 
The position obtained by the individual/team in the above said Competition/Tournament was 
______________________________________________________________________________. 
The Certificate is being given on the basis of record available in the office of Dean of Sports or 
Officer in overall charge of spots in the University of 
___________________________________________________. 
 
 
Place ______________________________   Signature _______________________ 
Date ___________________________    Name _____________________ 
Designation ___________________ 
Name of the University __________________ 
    Address _______________________ 
Seal _________________ 
Note: This Certificate will be valid only when signed personally by Dean/Director or other officer in 
overall charge of sports in the University of ______________________ 
(Annexure B of the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms O.M. No. 14015/1/78 -Estt 
(D) dated 4th August, 1980) 
 
  

--- PAGE 40 ---

Annexure- XIII (D) 
 
DIRECTORATE OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTIONS/EDUCATION OF THE STATE OF ________________ 
Certificate to meritorious sportsmen for employment to Group C & D  
Service under the Central Government 
Certified that Shri/Kumari  ___________________ son/daughter of Shri_____________ resident 
of_______________________ (complete address) student of __________________represented the  
__________ State School Team in the game/event of ______________________________________ in 
the Natio nal Games for schools held at ____________________ from ____________ to 
___________________________________. 
 
The position obtained by the individual/team in the above said Competition/Tournament was 
______________________________________________________________________________. 
The Certificate is being given on the basis of record available in the office of Directorate of 
Public Instruction/education of ___________________________________________________. 
 
 
Place ______________________________   Signature _______________________ 
Date ___________________________    Name _____________________ 
Designation ___________________ 
    Address _______________________ 
Seal _________________ 
Note: This Certificate will be valid only when signed personally by Director o r Additional/Joint or Deputy 
Director in overall charge of sports/games/for Schools in the Directorate of Public instruction/Educ ation 
of the State. 
  
(Annexure B of the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms O.M. No. 14015/1/78 -Estt 
(D) dated 4th August, 1980) 
  

--- PAGE 41 ---

Annexure- XIII (E) 
 (For representing in Khelo India University Games/Khelo India Youth Games/ Khelo India winter 
Games/Khelo India Para Games) 
 
Certificate to meritorious sportsmen for employment to Group C   
Service under the Central Government 
Certified that Shri/ Smt./Kumari ___________________ son/ Wife/daughter of Shri_____________ 
resident of_______________________ (complete address) student of ________________________ 
represented the University/Institute/School of_______________________________ in the game/event 
of ______________________________________ in Khelo India University Games/Khelo India Winter 
Games/Khelo India Para Games held at ____________________ from ____________ to 
___________________________________. 
 
The position o btained by the individual/team in the above said competition/tournament 
was___________________. 
 
The Certificate is being given on the basis of records available in this office. 
 
 
Place ______________________________   Signature _______________________ 
Date ___________________________    Name _____________________ 
Designation ___________________ 
    Address _______________________ 
Seal _________________ 
 
Note: This Certificate will be valid only when signed personally by Officer designated/officer in charge 
from Sports authority of India for Khelo India University/Khelo India Youth games/Khelo India Winter 
Games/Khelo India Para Games. 
(Annexure of the Department of Personnel and Training’s O .M. No. 140 34/1/2020-Pers.Policy (D) 
Pt.Vol.II dated 4th March, 2024)