--- PAGE 1 ---

                                                                                    Page 1 of 10 
 
Process Monitoring of Vacuum Assisted Resin T ransfer Moulding (VARTM) 
 
 VARTM is a composites manufacturing process where resin flows inside the mould under 
the influence of vacuum. In this process, large and thick composites  structures can be 
manufactured in a single shot. Resin should impregnate the full layup inside the mould  to ensure 
the product quality. It is difficult to ensure that the resin has reached all the parts of the mould if the 
mould geometry is complex. The difficulty increases manifold if the layup is thick. Hence there is a 
need to monitor the resin flow inside the mould during the resin infusion process 
 
 
Schematic of process monitoring scheme 
 
TECHNICAL DETAILS & SALIENT FEATURES: 
R&DE (E), Pune has evolved an optical sensor based process monitoring technique to track resin 
flow inside the mould. In this technique optical sensors are placed inside the dry layup and online 
feedback is collected during the resin infusion process. Sensor s placement is governed by the 
complexity of the mould and process requirement.  Multiple sensors are placed in a single ply as 
optical sensor provides point measurement. A measurement setup along with a GUI has been 
developed. The process monitoring techn ique is also very important for the sequential injection of 
resin. Input from process monitoring sensor helps to evaluate exact time to open the resin lines 
during sequential injection of resin. Hence process monitoring sensors fulfill the dual purpose of 
tracking of resin flow inside the mould and controlling the resin input lines during the sequential 
injection.  
The process monitoring enables realization of large co -cured composites parts by VARTM process.
  
 
  
 
 
LASER 
SOURCE 
OPTICAL 
SWITCH 
PHOTO 
DETECTO
R 
TERMINATED END 
OPTICAL FIBER 
SENSOR 
TRANSMITTED LIGHT 
REFLECTED LIGHT 

--- PAGE 2 ---

                                                                                    Page 2 of 10 
 
1. Interested companies/industries are requested to apply against this EoI to following 
address:- 
 
To, 
The Director 
Research & Development Establishment (Engineers) 
DRDO, Govt. of India, Ministry of Defence, 
Kalas, Alandi Road, Dighi P. O., Pune- 411015, India 
Phone No: 020-27044002/4012 
Email-director.rde@gov.in 
Fax No: 020-27044009 
 
2.  A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:- 
 
To,  
The Director, 
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM), 
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011 
Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in 
Fax-011-2379300 
Ph:011-23007446 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 3 ---

                                                                                    Page 3 of 10 
 
All industries interested in seeking ToT are requested to apply in the format given below. Kindly fill 
in the fields. The list of documents to be attached is provided in Annexure – I. Kindly provide the 
reference of page no. of supporting document in the relevant field of form. 
PART-1  
General Information 
(Please enclose documents in support of information provided) 
1.  Name of the Technology requested for 
Technology Transfer (Technology name and 
concerned Lab, Category) 
 
2.  Name of the industry/ organization  
3.  Complete Address and other details  
Registered Office 
State 
Phone No 
Fax 
Email 
Website 
 
Factory 
State 
Phone No 
Fax 
Email 
Website 
 
4.  Point of Contact  
Name 
Designation 
Address 
Mobile No 
Ph No 
Email ID 
 
5.  NAME OF CMD/ MD /PARTNERS/  

--- PAGE 4 ---

                                                                                    Page 4 of 10 
 
PROPRIETOR/ etc  
Name 
Designation 
Address 
Mobile No 
Ph No 
Email ID 
6.  Date of Incorporation of company  
7.  Foreign Direct Investment in company (if any 
in %) 
 
8.  Shareholding pattern  
9.  Turn over as per Audited Balance Sheet for 
the preceding three years. 
Year ____ 
Year ____ 
Year ____ 
 
10.  Annual budget for R&D during last three 
years (if any) 
Year ____  
Year ____  
Year ____ 
 
11.  Income Tax returns for the preceding three 
years period  
Year ____ 
Year ____  
Year ____ 
 
12.  Nature of company 
DPSU, Private Limited, Public Limited, 
Partnership, Proprietary, Ex - Serviceman Unit  
 
13.  Category of industry 
Large Scale, Medium Scale, Small Scale , Micro, 
Startup 
 

--- PAGE 5 ---

                                                                                    Page 5 of 10 
 
14.  MSME Registration No  
15.  Certificates of registration as a 
manufacturing unit, if any. 
 
16.  If Startup, DPIIT Registration No  
17.  UDYOG AADHAR No  
18.  PAN Number  
19.  Details of Industrial license for defence 
manufacturing issued by DPIIT (if any) 
 
20.  Details of PESO license (if any)  
21.  GST Number  
22.  Nature of business 
Manufacturing/ Sole Selling or Authorized Agent/ 
Assembler/ Traders/ Dealer/ Processor/ 
Repacker/ Others  
 
23.  Details of current products and services 
Products and services Supplied  (please specify 
Govt/ Domestic market/ Export)  
 
24.  Record of past performance 
(e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry 
of Defence orders, Public Sectors and 
Paramilitary Forces, if any).  
 
25.  Details of registration with 
NSIC / SSI, DGS&D, other Def ence Department, 
other Govt. Dept, membership of 
FICCI/ASSOCHAM/CII or other Industrial  
Association 
(Attach relevant copies of registration letters) 
 
26.  Have you already taken any technology from 
DRDO (If yes, give details attaching separate 
sheet) 
 
Name of the Technology, Lab, Year, License 
number & Status  
 
27.  ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  

--- PAGE 6 ---

                                                                                    Page 6 of 10 
 
(If yes, give details)  
28.  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ 
ministries (if any) 
 
29.  Capacity and capability to undertake 
developmental work and to accept attendant 
financial and commercial risks. 
 
30.  Capacity/capability to market the product 
through the marketing network, sales and 
service network, reliability to maintain 
confidentiality. 
 
 
PART-2 
Infrastructure and other Information 
1.  Total area of factory  
Covered (m2),  
Uncovered (m2), 
Bonded space available (m2) 
 
2.  Ownership of factory 
Self-owned, partnership, rental 
 
3.  Electric power 
Sanctioned 
Installed 
Standby (if any) 
 
4.  Availability of adequate infrastructure  
(List of machines and their production capacities) and 
technical expertise 
 
5.  Name of bank & A/c No Name of bank 
A/c type 
A/c no 
Address of the bank  
 

--- PAGE 7 ---

                                                                                    Page 7 of 10 
 
Phone:  
Email: 
 
6. Details of current products: 
S.No Type Description Licensed/installed capacity Annual production for preceding 3 
years 
     
     
 
7. Details of foreign collaboration, if any 
S.No Product Name and address of collaborator Year Remarks 
     
     
 
8. Details of products developed for services 
S.No Nomenclature of stores Order No. and date Remarks 
    
    
 
9. Please give details of important facilities & infrastructure as per following 
format for: 
(a) Production 
(b) Unconventional, special m/c 
(c) Testing & quality control facilities  
S.No Description of m/c Make & model Qty Date of 
purchase 
Remarks 
      
      
 
10. Furnish  the following details with relevant certificates and documents 
(a) R&D facilities available       : 
(b) Inspection quality control of raw material components  : 
(c) Assistance from central agency for testing / calibration etc. : 
(d) laboratory and drawing office facility     : 
11.  Principal  customers: 

--- PAGE 8 ---

                                                                                    Page 8 of 10 
 
S. No Name & address S.O No and 
date 
Date of last 
supply 
Products 
supplied 
Value 
      
      
 
12. Future plans (if any) in respect of expansion programme/ installation of 
additional machines/ test facilities etc. 
13. Name of the technology requested for transfer 
(give self-assessment of your capability to absorb the technology) 
 
14. Details of employee as on date on firm’s pay roll 
PERMANENT 
Category Post Held Number Qualification Total Service 
Technical Prod. Manager 
Q.C. Manager 
Supervisor 
Testing Staff (QC) 
Skilled workers 
Unskilled workers, etc 
   
Administrative Purchase Manager 
Accounts Officer  
Office Superintendent 
Clerical 
Others, etc 
   
 
 
TEMPORARY 
Category Post Held Number Qualification Total Service 
Technical Prod. Manager 
Q.C. Manager 
Supervisor 
Testing Staff (QC) 
Skilled workers 
Unskilled workers, etc 
   
Administrative Purchase Manager    

--- PAGE 9 ---

                                                                                    Page 9 of 10 
 
Accounts Officer  
Office Superintendent 
Clerical 
Others, etc 
 
DECLARATION: 
I / we confirm that the information furnished in Part 1 & 2 above is correct. In the event 
of any information given by me / us is found incorrect / false at any time, I / we understand 
our EoI for ToT will be cancelled/ rejected without notice, beside any other appropriate action 
against me / us. 
 
Industry seal           Authorized signatory 
Name(s) in capital 
Designation and seal of authorized signatory 
 
Date:   
Place: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 10 ---

                                                                                    Page 10 of 10 
 
Annexure – I 
List of Support documents to be attached with EoI 
 
(a)  Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian Companies 
Act, as amended time to time) 
(b)  Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 
(c)  Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  
(d)  Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  
(e)  Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/ shareholders, foreign 
employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of India policies 
and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.  
(f)  Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  
(g)  Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 
(h)  Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 
 (i)  Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of Defence 
orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  
(j)  Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities) and 
technical expertise.  
(k)  List of Testing and Support equipment’s 
(l)  ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  
(m)  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 
(n)  Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant financial 
and commercial risks.  
(o)  Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and service 
network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 
(p)  PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material, explosives, 
propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  
(q)  Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent Directors, 
non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any corrupt practices, 
unfair means and illegal activities. 
(r)  Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by the industry 
seeking ToTs. 
(s)  Application cum Industry Assessment Form