--- PAGE 1 ---

Mandarin to Hindi Speech Translation [MHST]
Speech-to-Speech translation is a complex problem to solve due to understanding  of 
speech from persons with different ascent, speed of speaking, clarity which is further  
compounded by noise from the ambient environment. This problem is made even more  
challenging by requirement of a huge corpus to cover large vocabulary for domain  
agnostic speech translation and provide a good quality output. 
The objective of the development of Mandarin to Hindi speech translation system by  
DYSL-AI is to be able to interpret and translate Mandarin speech to Hindi speech in real  
time. The system enables understanding of the foreign language and it can be used to  
understand recorded speech as well. 
a) Uniqueness of the product: 
DYSL-AI is working on building products for speech-to-speech translation without the  
requirement  of  any  internet  connectivity,  thus  alleviating  the  dependence  on  any 
thirdparty API’s or cloud services for speech translation. High quality speech to speech  
translation devices without cloud connectivity are barely available, if any. The product  
Mandarin to Hindi speech translator developed by DYSL-AI differentiates itself by being  
capable of performing good quality Mandarin speech to Hindi speech/text translation on  
the edge platform itself.
b) Potential Use-cases: 
Speech is the most natural mechanism for communication and cuts across the literacy  
barrier and is the default choice during situations of high cognitive load. This language  
technology is critical for both communications as well as potential needs by serving the  
following use cases: Mandarin to Hindi/English Speech to Speech Translation without  
cloud connectivity 
 Mandarin speech to text transcription (Automatic Speech Recognition) 
 Mandarin to Hindi machine translation (Text to Text Translation) 
 Hindi text to Speech generation 
 Translation of Mandarin Documents like pdf, docx, text 
 Streaming translation for large audio/video files 
 On custom edge device for offline and real time translation
Interested industries are requested to forward their Expression of Interest (EoI) (with  
attachments of supporting documents) to Director, DYSL-AI  with a copy to Director  
DIIQM, DRDO HQ (without attachment) within 21 days of hosting on following address:-

--- PAGE 2 ---

To, 
The Director
DYSL-AI, Bengaluru
Ground Floor, Dr. Raja Ramanna Complex 
Near Raj Bhavan, Bengaluru - 560001
Tele: 080- 22017702
Email: director.dysl-ai@gov.in
Fax: 080-22342444
2.    A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:-
The Director
Directorate of Industry Interface & Quality Management (DIIQM)
Room No 447, DRDO Bhawan, DRDO HQrs, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi – 110011
Phone: 011-23013209/ 23015291
Fax: 011-23793008
Email: diitm[dot]hqr[at]gov[dot]in
All Industries interested in seeking ToT are requested to furnish details in the format  
given in Part-1 & Part-2 below. The list of documents to be attached is provided in  
Annexure – I. Kindly provide the reference of page no. of supporting document in the  
relevant field also. The list of documents to be attached is provided in Annexure-I.

--- PAGE 3 ---

P      A      R      T      -      1       
General Information
(Please enclose documents in support of information provided)
1 Name of the Technology requested for Technology 
Transfer (Technology name and concerned Lab, 
Category)
2 Name of the industry/ organization
3 Complete Address and other details
Registered Office
State
Phone No
Fax
Email
Website
Factory
State
Phone No
Fax
Email
Website
4 Point of Contact
Name
Designation
Address
Mobile No
Ph No
Email ID
5 NAME OF CMD/ MD /PARTNERS/ PROPRIETOR/ 
etc
Name
Designation
Address
Mobile No
Ph No
Email ID
6 Date of Incorporation of company
7 Foreign Direct Investment in company (if any in %)
8 Shareholding pattern
9 Turn over as per Audited Balance Sheet for the 
preceding three years.
Year ____
Year ____
Year ____
10 Annual budget for R&D during last three years (if 
any)

--- PAGE 4 ---

Year ____
Year ____
Year ____
11 Income Tax returns for the preceding three years 
period
Year ____
Year ____
Year ____
12 Nature of company
DPSU, Private Limited, Public Limited, Partnership, 
Proprietary, Ex- Serviceman Unit
13 Category of industry
Large Scale, Medium Scale, Small Scale, Micro, 
Startup
14 MSME Registration No
15 Certificates of registration as a manufacturing 
unit, if any.
16 If Startup, DPIIT Registration No
17 UDYOG AADHAR No
18 PAN Number
19 Details of Industrial license for defence 
manufacturing issued by DPIIT (if any)
20 Details of PESO license (if any)
21 GST Number
22 Nature of business
Manufacturing/ Sole Selling or Authorized Agent/ 
Assembler/ Traders/ Dealer/ Processor/ Repacker/ 
Others
23 Details of current products and services
Products and services Supplied (please specify Govt/ 
Domestic market/ Export)
24 Record of past performance
(e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of 
Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary 
Forces, if any).
25 Details of registration with
NSIC / SSI, DGS&D, other Defence Department, other 
Govt. Dept, membership of FICCI/ASSOCHAM/CII or 
other Industrial Association
(Attach relevant copies of registration letters)
26 Have you already taken any technology from 
DRDO (If yes, give details attaching separate sheet)
Name of the Technology, Lab, Year, License number 
& Status
27 ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification (If 
yes, give details)

--- PAGE 5 ---

28 Relevant clearances form the authorities/ 
ministries (if any)
29 Capacity and capability to undertake 
developmental work and to accept attendant 
financial and commercial risks.
30 Capacity/capability to market the product through 
the marketing network, sales and service network, 
reliability to maintain confidentiality.
P      A      R      T      -      2  
Infrastructure and other Information
1 Total area of factory
Covered (m2),
Uncovered (m2),
Bonded space available (m2)
2 Ownership of factory
Self-owned, partnership, rental
3 Electric power
Sanctioned
Installed
Standby (if any)
4 Availability of adequate infrastructure
(List of machines and their production capacities) and 
technical expertise
5 Name of bank & A/c No Name of bank
A/c type
A/c no
Address of the bank
Phone:
Email:
6  Details of current products:
S.No Type Description Licensed/installed capacity Annual production for 
preceding 3 years
7  Details of foreign collaboration, if any
S.No Product Name and address of collaborator Year Remarks
8 Details of products developed for services

--- PAGE 6 ---

S.No Nomenclature of stores Order No. and date Remarks
9 Please give details of important facilities & infrastructure as per 
following format for:
(a) Production
(b) Unconventional, special m/c
(c) Testing & quality control facilities 
S.No Description of m/c Make & model Qty Date of 
purchase
Remarks
10 Furnish  the following details with relevant certificates and documents
(a)  R&D facilities available :
(b)  Inspection quality control of raw material components :
(c)  Assistance from central agency for testing / calibration etc. :
(d)  laboratory and drawing office facility :
11 Principal  customers:
S. No Name & address S.O No and 
date
Date of last 
supply
Products 
supplied
Value
12 Future  plans (if any) in respect of expansion programme/ installation 
of additional machines/ test facilities etc.
13 Name of the technology requested for transfer (give self-assessment of 
your capability to absorb the technology)
14 Details  of employee as on date on firm’s pay roll
PERMANENT
Category Post Held Number Qualification Total Service
Technical Prod. Manager
Q.C. Manager 
Supervisor

--- PAGE 7 ---

Testing Staff (QC)
Skilled workers
Unskilled workers, etc
Administrative Purchase Manager
Accounts Officer
Office Superintendent
Clerical
Others, etc
TEMPORARY
Category Post Held Number Qualification Total Service
Technical Prod. Manager
Q.C. Manager 
Supervisor
Testing Staff (QC)
Skilled workers
Unskilled workers, etc
Administrative Purchase Manager
Accounts Officer
Office Superintendent
Clerical
Others, etc
D      E      C      L      A      R      A      T      I      O      N       :
I / we confirm that the information furnished in Part 1 & 2 above is  correct. 
In the event of any information given by me / us is found incorrect / false at any 
time, I / we understand our EoI for ToT will be cancelled/ rejected without notice, 
beside any other appropriate action against me / us.
Industry seal Authorized signatory
  Name(s) in capital
   Designation and seal of authorized signatory
Date: 
Plac

--- PAGE 8 ---

Annexure-I
List of Supporting Documents to be Attached with EoI
(a) Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian  
Companies Act, as amended time to time)
(b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.
(c) Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years. 
(d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period 
(e) Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially  foreign  partners/  
shareholders,  foreign  employees,  directors,  etc.  The  company  must  adhere  to  the 
prevailing  Govt  of  India  policies  and  regulations  on  Foreign  Direct  Investment 
(FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable. 
(f) Annual budget for R&D during last three years. 
(g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.
(h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.
(i) Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of  
Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any). 
(j) Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  machines  and  their  production 
capacities) and technical expertise. 
(k) List of Testing and Support equipment’s
(l) ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification 
(m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any)
(n) Capacity  and  capability  to  undertake  developmental  work  and  to  accept 
attendant financial and commercial risks. 
(o) Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales  
and service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.
(p) PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material,  
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc. 
(q) Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent  
Directors, non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any  
corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities.

--- PAGE 9 ---

(r) Details of the industrial license for defence manufacturing be provided by the  
industry seeking ToTs.
(s) (s) Duly filled Application cum Industry Assessment Form  (as per  annexure 
attached)