--- PAGE 1 ---

Post Impact Delay Fuze for Air Delivered Bomb 
TBRL has designed and developed a state of the ar t electronic post impact 
delay fuze for air delivered bomb.  This fuze  can find applications in  concrete 
penetration bombs  used for defeating hard and buried structures . EBW detonator 
based inline explosive train is incorporated in the fuze to enhance the safety during 
storage, transportation and usage. Use of no primary explosives in the fuze does not 
require complex moving/rotating Safety & Arming mechanisms.  The developed fuze 
is compatible with the fuze well of existing bombs available with the Indian Air force. 
The developed fuze has the following salient features; 
 
1. Operational 
features 
1. Instantaneous functioning on impact 
2. Short delay  
2. Compatibility Rear mountable fuze for 2” fuze well 
3. Programmability Manual knobs and RS -422 interface  for setting mission 
parameters such as arming delay and post impact delay 
4. Safeties Lanyard switch and Turbo generator 
5. Other features Modular, fail safe design 
 
It is a combination of 
mechanical and electrical sub 
systems for providing adequate 
safety to the bomb during all 
phases of its life. The fuze is 
divided into two subsystems 
namely Release sensing and 
arming system (RSAS) and fuzing 
system. RSAS is directly interfaced 
with the aircraft and is designed to 
provide safety to the fuze during 
handling and arm the fuze after 
verifying the release parameters. But the fuzing system is responsible for initiating 
the explosive train at a set delay after the impact /penetration. The fuzing  section of 
the fuze is hardened to withstand high 'g' loads during impact and penetration of the 
target. The developed fuzing section has been subjected actual concrete penetration 
trials and functioned successfully. The ToT partner is expected to produce required 
number of fuzes and get involved with the design team during  RCMA clearance and 
flight trials/ user evaluation trials.  
 
EBW detonator will be provided by TBRL at the prevailing  cost at that time as 
the same is not part of development and is a restricted technology.