--- PAGE 1 ---

Production of Explosive Composition MCHEW-7
Description of Technology:
Solid high explosive particles are coated  with less sensitive materials for safe handling during
the preparation of final high explosive composition mix at high temperatures for filling in the
warheads. High explosive particles are coated with different proportions of coating material as
per requirement. HEMRL has developed method for coating of high explosive powder  with
less sensitive coating material. Production of Explosive Composition MCHEW-7 will be done
as per the technology developed by HEMRL.
This coated explosive prepared is filled in the warheads after re-melting and converting it into
required  proportions  as  per  the  warhead  performance  requirement  by  addition  of  other
ingredients. HEMRL has developed technology for filling of coated  explosive based high
explosive compositions for different warhead application like blast, shaped charge warheads,
fragmentation, etc.
Application Area:
This coated explosive is essential for preparation of different  high explosive compositions for
filling in the warheads to meet lethality of blast, shaped charge, and fragmentation effects.
1. Interested  Companies/industries  are  requested  to  apply  against  this  EoI  to  the
following address:-
To, 
The Director,
High Energy Materials Research  Laboratory (HEMRL)
Sutarwadi, Pune-411 021
Email- director.hemrl@gov.in
2. A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:-
To, 
The Director, 
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM)
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011
Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in

--- PAGE 2 ---

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI:-
(a) Memorandum  and  Articles  of  Association  (Should  be  incorporated  as  per  Indian  
Companies Act, as amended time to time).
(b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.
(c) Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.
(d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period.
(e) Details  of shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially  foreign  partners/shareholders,  
foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of 
India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/ DIPP norms as
applicable.
(f) Annual budget for R&D during last three years.
(g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.
(h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.
(i) Record  of past  performance  (e.g.,  Supply  orders  executed  against of Ministry  of  
Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).
(j) Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities) 
and technical expertise.
(k) List of Testing and Support equipments.
(l) ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification.
(m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any).
(n) Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept
attendant financial and commercial risks.
(o) Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and  
service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.
(p) PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material,  
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.
(q) Under  taking  form  company  seeking  ToT that  none  of  its  Directors,  Independent  
Directors, non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any  
corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities.
(r) Details of the industries license for Defence manufacturing be provided by the industry 
seeking ToTs.