--- PAGE 1 ---

 Technology for Production of High Explosive Composition and its filling in 40mm x 
46mm HEAP & HEDP Grenades for UBGL/ MGL 
 
Description of Technology: 
Two types of 40 mm Grenade ammunitions namely HEAP and HEDP are required to 
destroy targets using kill mechanisms viz armour penetration and blast & fragmentation 
respectively. To achieve respective QRs  (The pressed composition  PBXPW-2 developed 
possesses VOD of 8200 m/s and density of 1.64 g/cc for HEAP  grenade and the pressed 
composition PBXPW-3 developed for HEDP grenade possesses VOD of 8400 m/s and density 
of 1.68 g/cc ), high explosive compositions and their filling methodology in these ammunitions 
have been designed and developed by DRDO.  The high explosive system in both the 
ammunitions consists of main charge and booster. Main charge consists of RDX based HE 
composition in case of HEAP and HMX based in case of HEDP. Booster is ba sed on PETN in 
both cases. 
  HE compositions and their filling methodologies in these munitions have been finalized 
to realize the performance lethality at the given distances in terms of blast, fragmentation and 
penetration in MS targets respectively.  The pressing technology has been developed for the 
main charges of the ammunitions and for boosters.   Present ToT is for both the ammunitions 
namely HEAP (PBXPW-2) and HEDP (PBXPW-3).  
All the development activities such as establishment of high explosive preparation 
technology, filling methodologies, all the performance evaluation trials, dynamic trials of both 
the ammunitions have been fully completed meeting all the QRs.  
All the raw materials and equipment required are available indigenously.  
 
1. Interested companies/industries are requested to apply against this EoI to following 
address:- 
To, 
The Director 
High Energy Materials Research Laboratory (HEMRL), 
DRDO, Govt. of India, Ministry of Defence, 
Sutarwadi, Pune-411 021 
Email-director.hemrl@gov.in 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 2 ---

2.  A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:- 
To,  
The Director, 
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM), 
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011 
Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in 
List of Support documents to be attached with EoI 
(a)  Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian Companies Act, 
as amended time to time) 
 (b)  Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 
 (c)  Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  
(d)  Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  
(e)  Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/ shareholders, foreign 
employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of India policies and 
regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.  
(f)  Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  
(g)  Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 
 (h)  Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 
 (i)  Record of past performance ( e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of Defence 
orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  
(j)  Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities) and 
technical expertise.  
(k)  List of Testing and Support equipment’s 
 (l)  ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  
(m)  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 
(n)  Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant financial and 
commercial risks.  
(o)  Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and service 
network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 
(p)  PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT  is for high energy Material, explosives, 
propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  
(q)  Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent Directors, non -
executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any corrupt practices, unfair 
means and illegal activities. 
(r)  Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by the industry seeking 
ToTs.