--- PAGE 1 ---

 “Ultrasonic Cleaner System for Small Arms” 
Small arms cleaning activity is done manually, as of now, due to unavailability of the proper 
equipment/method for carrying out such a specific activity. Ultrasonic cleaning is a powerful 
technique to remove tough contaminants and, therefore, many armies around the world are 
utilizing the ultrasonic based equipments. With the aim to automate the manual cleaning, an 
innovative design has been finalized after  intensive research, experimentation and after due 
deliberation with the stakeholders. Design has been tested on various class of small arms and 
their components. The equipment has been especially designed for small arms cleaning and 
maintenance and boast of features like distinct transducer design, heater, dryer etc. with 
ergonomic design. 
ToT will comprise of designing and manufacturing the equipment and methodology to clean 
the small arms. 
1.  Interested companies/industries are requested to apply agains t this EoI to 
following address:- 
To, 
The Director 
Armament Research & Development Establishment (ARDE), 
Dr. Homi Bhabha Road, Pashan, Pune-411021 
Email-director.arde@gov.in 
 
2.  A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any 
attachment:- 
 
Copy to:-  
To, 
The Director 
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM) 
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011 
Email-diitm.hqr@gov. 

--- PAGE 2 ---

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI 
(a)  Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per 
Indian Companies Act, as amended time to time) 
 (b)  Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 
 (c)  Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  
(d)  Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  
(e)  Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/ 
shareholders, foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must  adhere to 
the prevailing Govt of India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct 
Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.  
(f)  Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  
(g)  Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 
 (h)  Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 
 (i)  Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry 
of Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  
(j)  Availability of adequate infrastructu re (List of machines and their production 
capacities) and technical expertise.  
(k)  List of Testing and Support equipment’s 
 (l)  ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  
(m)  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 
(n)  Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept 
attendant financial and commercial risks.  
(o)  Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, 
sales and service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 
(p)  PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy 
Material, explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  
(q)  Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, 
Independent Directors, non -executive Directors, Key management personnel 
are involved in any corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities. 
(r)  Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by the 
industry seeking ToTs.