--- PAGE 1 ---

 
Anti-riot Gloves with Fire Resistance 
In riot conditions, law enforcement and security personnel face significant challenges related to 
hand protection. The challenges include injuries from thrown objects, blunt force trauma, and 
needle punctures. This necessitates use of specialized gloves vi z anti-riot gloves. Anti-riot gloves 
are designed to balance protection with dexterity, allowing personnel to maintain a firm grip and 
perform task effectively.  
Typically, gloves made from high -performance fibers like ultrahigh molecular weight polyethyle ne 
or nylon offer excellent protection against cuts and punctures. However, they may not guarantee 
fire retardance. In the context, the present technology uses core spun yarn improving fire 
resistance along with cut resistance. This gives the gloves advant age of utility in multiple 
scenarios over and above low enforcement, giving protection to personnel in situations with 
mechanical, thermal and chemicals hazards. 
CFEES developed a nti-riot gloves have been  prepared using core spun yarn - core of stainless 
steel fiber, which is wrapped or twisted with a sheath of a fire retardant fiber. As expected, the yarn 
has the strength and durability of the core fiber, and benefits from the fire retardancy and abrasion 
resistance of the sheath fiber. The gloves  offer excellent cut protection for environments where 
high temperatures and sharp objects, like glass, are both present. The seamless glove liner 
greatly reduces perspiration and limits skin irritation caused by contact with glove material such as 
latex, PVC and also other chemical handling gloves.  The weight of the pair of gloves is 55g. The 
thickness is 2mm ±10%. 
 
Figure: CFEES developed gloves 
The gloves meet the requirements of BS 7971 -6:2003 (Protective clothing and equipment for use 
in violent situations a nd in training- Part 6: Gloves for protection against mechanical, thermal and 
chemical hazards- Requirements and test methods).  


--- PAGE 2 ---

 
 
1. Industries are requested to submit their expression of Interest for ToT within 21 
days of publishing of technology on DRDO web -page. Interested companies/ 
industries are forward the sealed bids against this EoI (two separate sealed 
envelopes in one sealed cover (i) Technical Offer: Application cum Industry Form as 
per Annexure –II of Appendix ‘D’ to with all supporting documents to Lab/Estt . (ii) 
Commercial Offer: In a separate sealed enveloped s pecifying the ToT fee offered by 
industry) to following address:- 
 
To, 
 
The Director 
Centre for Fire, Explosive and Environment Safety (CFEES) 
Brig. S.K. Mujumdar Marg, Timarpur-Delhi-110054 
E-mail: director.cfees@gov.in 
Fax No: 011-23819547 
 
2.  A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:- 
 
To,  
The Director, 
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM), 
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011 
E-mail: diitm.hqr@gov.in 
Phone No. 011-23007446 
Fax-011-23793008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 3 ---

 
Annexure-II to Appendix ‘D’ 
 
 
All industries interested in seeking ToT are requested to apply in the format given below. 
Kindly fill in the fields. The list of documents to be attached is provided in Annexure – I. Kindly 
provide the reference of page no. of supporting document in the relevant field of form. 
PART-1  
General Information 
(Please enclose documents in support of information provided) 
1.  Name of the Technology requested for 
Technology Transfer (Technology name and 
concerned Lab, Category) 
 
2.  Name of the industry/ organization  
3.  Complete Address and other details  
Registered Office 
State 
Phone No 
Fax 
Email 
Website 
 
Factory 
State 
Phone No 
Fax 
Email 
Website 
 
4.  Point of Contact  
Name 
Designation 
Address 
Mobile No 
Ph No 
Email ID 
 
5.  NAME OF CMD/ MD /PARTNERS/ PROPRIE-
TOR/ etc  
Name 
Designation 
Address 
Mobile No 
Ph No 
Email ID 
 
6.  Date of Incorporation of company  
7.  Foreign Direct Investment in company (if 
any in %) 
 
8.  Shareholding pattern  
9.  Turn over as per Audited Balance Sheet for 
the preceding three years. 
Year ____ 
Year ____ 
Year ____ 
 
10.  Annual budget for R&D during last three 
years (if any) 
Year ____  
Year ____  
Year ____ 
 
11.  Income Tax returns for the preceding three  

--- PAGE 4 ---

 
years period  
Year ____ 
Year ____  
Year ____ 
12.  Nature of company 
DPSU, Private Limited, Public  Limited, Partner-
ship, Proprietary, Ex - Serviceman Unit  
 
13.  Category of industry 
Large Scale, Medium Scale, Small Scale, Micro, 
Startup 
 
14.  MSME Registration No  
15.  Certificates of registration as a manufactur-
ing unit, if any. 
 
16.  If Startup, DPIIT Registration No  
17.  UDYOG AADHAR No  
18.  PAN Number  
19.  Details of Industrial license for defence 
manufacturing issued by DPIIT (if any) 
 
20.  Details of PESO license (if any)  
21.  GST Number  
22.  Nature of business 
Manufacturing/ Sole Selling or Authorized 
Agent/ Assembler/ Traders/ Dealer/ Processor/ 
Repacker/ Others  
 
23.  Details of current products and services 
Products and services Supplied (please specify 
Govt/ Domestic market/ Export)  
 
24.  Record of past performance 
(e.g., Supply orders executed against of Mini s-
try of Defence orders, Public Sectors and Pa r-
amilitary Forces, if any).  
 
25.  Details of registration with 
NSIC / SSI, DGS&D, other Defence Depar t-
ment, other Govt. Dept, membership of FI C-
CI/ASSOCHAM/CII or other Industrial Associa-
tion 
(Attach relevant copies of registration let-
ters) 
 
26.  Have you already taken any technology from 
DRDO (If yes, give details attaching separate 
sheet) 
 
Name of the Technology, Lab, Year, License 
number & Status  
 
27.  ISO/ ISI certification or any other certifica-
tion (If yes, give details)  
 
28.  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ 
ministries (if any) 
 
29.  Capacity and capability to undertake devel-
opmental work and to accept attendant fi-
nancial and commercial risks. 
 
30.  Capacity/capability to market the product 
through the marketing network, sales and 
service network, reliability to maintain con-
fidentiality. 
 

--- PAGE 5 ---

 
 
PART-2 
Infrastructure and other Information 
1.  Total area of factory  
Covered (m2),  
Uncovered (m2), 
Bonded space available (m2) 
 
2.  Ownership of factory 
Self-owned, partnership, rental 
 
3.  Electric power 
Sanctioned 
Installed 
Standby (if any) 
 
4.  Availability of adequate infrastructure  
(List of machines and their production capacities) and 
technical expertise 
 
5.  Name of bank & A/c No Name of bank 
A/c type 
A/c no 
Address of the bank  
Phone:  
Email: 
 
 
6. Details of current products: 
S.No Type Description Licensed/installed capaci-
ty 
Annual production for preceding 
3 years 
     
      
7. Details of foreign collaboration, if any 
S.No Product Name and address of collaborator Year Remarks 
     
     
 
8. Details of products developed for services 
S.No Nomenclature of stores Order No. and date Remarks 
    
    
 
9. Please give details of important facilities & infrastructure as per follow-
ing format for: 
(a) Production 
(b) Unconventional, special m/c 
(c) Testing & quality control facilities  
S.No Description of 
m/c 
Make & model Qty Date of pur-
chase 
Remarks 
      
      
 
10. Furnish  the following details with relevant certificates and documents 
(a) R&D facilities available       : 

--- PAGE 6 ---

 
(b) Inspection quality control of raw material components  : 
(c) Assistance from central agency for testing / calibration etc. : 
(d) laboratory and drawing office facility     : 
11.  Principal  customers: 
S. No Name & address S.O No and 
date 
Date of last 
supply 
Products 
supplied 
Value 
      
      
 
12. Future plans (if any) in respect of expansion programme/ installation 
of additional machines/ test facilities etc. 
13. Name of the technology requested for transfer 
(give self-assessment of your capability to absorb the technology) 
 
14. Details of employee as on date on firm’s pay roll 
PERMANENT 
Category Post Held Number Qualification Total Service 
Technical Prod. Manager 
Q.C. Manager Supervi-
sor 
Testing Staff (QC) 
Skilled workers 
Unskilled workers, etc 
   
Administrative Purchase Manager 
Accounts Officer  
Office Superintendent 
Clerical 
Others, etc 
   
 
TEMPORARY 
Category Post Held Number Qualification Total Service 
Technical Prod. Manager 
Q.C. Manager Super-
visor 
Testing Staff (QC) 
Skilled workers 
Unskilled workers, etc 
   
Administrative Purchase Manager 
Accounts Officer  
Office Superintendent 
Clerical 
Others, etc 
   
 
DECLARATION: 
I / we confirm that the information furnished in Part 1 & 2 above is correct. In the 
event of any information given by me / us is found incorrect / false at any time, I / we 
understand our EoI for ToT will be cancelled/ rejected without notice, beside any other 
appropriate action against me / us. 
 
Industry seal           Authorized signatory 
Name(s) in capital 
Designation and seal of authorized signatory 
 
Date:   
Place: 
 

--- PAGE 7 ---

 
 
Annexure – I 
List of Support documents to be attached with EoI 
 
(a)  Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian 
Companies Act, as amended time to time) 
 (b)  Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 
 (c)  Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  
(d)  Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  
(e)  Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/ shareholders, 
foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of 
India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as 
applicable.  
(f)  Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  
(g)  Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 
 (h)  Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 
 (i)  Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of 
Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  
(j)  Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities) 
and technical expertise.  
(k)  List of Testing and Support equipment’s 
 (l)  ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  
(m)  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 
(n)  Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant 
financial and commercial risks.  
(o)  Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and 
service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 
(p)  PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material, 
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  
(q)  Under taking form company seeking ToT  that none of its Directors, Independent 
Directors, non -executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any 
corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities. 
(r)  Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by the industry 
seeking ToTs. 
(s)  Application cum Industry Assessment Form