--- PAGE 1 ---

 
 Anti- Bed Bug Bed Sheet  
 
 Bed bugs are small, flat insects that pose a public health risk due to their 
parasitic nature and blood craving. Numerous studies on bed bugs and their impact on 
human health have been undertaken. Modern bed bugs, in particula r, are resistant to 
single pyrethroids. It is unknown whether the multiple pyrethroid -impregnated liners are 
effective. There is limited evidence on insecticides' effectiveness to repel bed bugs.  
Permethrin, lambda -cyhalothrin, deltamethrin, and a chlorin ated pyrrole designated 
chlorfenapyr are now used in combination with other pyrethroids. Bed bug (Cimex 
lectularius) management strategies can include utilising anti -bed bug bed sheets 
impregnated with various pyrethroids, particularly in the defence, rail way, and hotel 
industries. Bed bugs were studied in this study to evaluate how they would react to 
various types of permethrin -impregnated fabric, with special attention paid to contact 
toxicity, repellency, and feeding inhibition. Bed bugs became inebriated after continuous 
contact to impregnated anti -bed bug bed sheets, and the population achieved 100% 
death after 96 hours, despite repellent activity and the mortality being detectable for up 
to 20 washes. According to photo documentation and recording dat a, bed bugs easily 
transferred over to the pyrethroid-impregnated bed sheets and tried to escape swiftly. 
  
Anti-bed bug bed sheets are made of a finely woven polyester and cotton blend fabric 
that has been impregnated with 1% -concentration combinations of  permethrin, 
deltamethrin, and alpha cypermethrin via a non -covalent bonding procedure, allowing 
for the formulation's bioavailability repellency and killing bed bugs. The product remains 
active for up to 20 washes after usage. 
 
Contact Details 
Interested companies/industries are requested to apply against this EoI through email or 
by DAK to following address:- 
To, (with all attachments) 
Director 
Defence Research Laboratory (DRL) 
Govt. of India, Ministry of Defence 
Defence R&D Organisation 
Dekargaon, Tezpur (Assam)-784501 
Email-director.drl @gov.in 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 2 ---

Copy to (without attachments):- 
The Director 
Directorate of Industry Interface & technology Management (DIITM) 
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011 
Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in 
List of supporting documents to be attached with EoI 
(a) Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian 
Companies Act, as amended time to time) 
 (b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 
 (c)  Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  
(d)  Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  
(e)  Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partn ers/ 
shareholders, foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to 
the prevailing Govt of India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment 
(FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.  
(f)  Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  
(g)  Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 
 (h)  Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 
 (i)  Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of 
Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  
(j)  Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production 
capacities) and technical expertise.  
(k)  List of Testing and Support equipment’s 
 (l)  ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  
(m)  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 
(n)  Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept 
attendant financial and commercial risks.  
(o)  Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing networ k, sales 
and service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 
(p)  PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material, 
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  
(q)  Under taking form compan y seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent 
Directors, non -executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in 
any corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities. 
(r)  Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing  be provid ed by the 
industry seeking ToTs