--- PAGE 1 ---

 
 
Expression of Interest (EoI) for ToT of FLAME RETARDANT AUTOMATIC 
INFLATABLE LIFE JACKET (FRAILJ) 
The jacket is a life saving equipment, which is inflatable and is intended for preventing 
the aircrew/pilot from drowning in the event of an emergency ejection or landing into 
water. 
Salient features: 
• Made out of Flame Retardant meta aramid woven and knittedfabric, which provides 
adequate time to escape in the event of an unforeseen fire accident.   
• Inflatable thermoplastic PU bladder manufactured by RF welding with stole pouch 
for protection of bladders. 
• Automatic and manual modes of inflation.Automatic inflation mechanism (CO2 
cylinder) with sea activated battery helps to Inflate the bladder within <5 seconds. 
• Provides a buoyancy of minimum 18kg and keeps the wearer afloat for 4 to 6 hrs at 
a convenient angle. 
• Para aramid fabric with very high Limiting Oxygen Index (LoI) is provided for 
additional protection of bladder against molten metal splashes. 
• Available for Jaguar, Mirage and MiG series aircrafts. 
• Equipped with winching tapes to pull the pilot from surface of water. 
• Available in universal size. 
• Provided with a survival aid pocket to hold survival aids, Personal Locator Beacon 
(PLB), GPS antenna and V/UHF antenna. 
• Provided with reflective tapes and fluorescent fabrics to attract the rescue team. 
• Jaguar version of FRAILJ has closure plate assembly to secure man mounted 
oxygen regulator. Mirage version has a smaller closure plate assembly to secure 
HMSD cables. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 2 ---

 
 
 
Contact Details 
Interested companies/industries are requested to apply against this EoI through email or 
by DAK to following address:- 
 
To, 
Director 
Defence Bioengineering &Electromedical Laboratory  
Govt. of India, Ministry of Defence 
CV Raman Nagar-560 093 
Email-director.debel@gov.in 
 
Copy to:- 
The Director 
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM) 
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011 
Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in 
 
List of Support documents to be attached with EoI 
(a)  Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian 
Companies Act, as amended time to time) 
 (b)  Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 
 (c)  Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  
(d)  Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  
(e)  Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/ 
shareholders, foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to 
the prevailing Govt of India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment 
(FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.  
(f)  Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  
(g)  Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 
 (h)  Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 

--- PAGE 3 ---

 
 
 (i)  Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of 
Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  
(j)  Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production 
capacities) and technical expertise.  
(k)  List of Testing and Support equipment’s 
 (l)  ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  
(m)  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 
(n)  Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept 
attendant financial and commercial risks.  
(o)  Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales 
and service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 
(p)  PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material, 
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  
(q)  Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent 
Directors, non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in 
any corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities. 
(r)  Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by the 
industry seeking ToTs.