--- PAGE 1 ---

GLOVES ECW(MODIFIED) OUTER & INNER 
   Gloves ECW (Modified) Outer & Gloves ECW Inner was developed by 
DMSRDE, Kanpur to replace existing Disruptive Gloves. Gloves ECW 
provide adequate warmth to Jawans  posted at extreme cold weather 
(ECW) regions where temperature goes down upto -20 to -30°C. It 
consists of two components; inner gloves and outer gloves.  Inner and 
outer gloves may be used separately or both together as per the prevailing 
environmental co nditions. These were trial evaluated by user in three 
different units. During 2005, these items were approved by MGO vide letter No.  
B/82226/4/MGO/EM/GS&C dt.03.09.05 for introduction into service.  
 Glove ECW are   being used by the soldiers for protection of hands in 
Extreme Cold Weather region against severe cold and to prevent the 
ingress of snow.   Gloves ECW outer are made on  principle of gloves - in 
-gloves with multilayered different insulating textile materials. These 
materials in  multilayer structure give better thermal comfort. Textile 
materials used in gloves outer are - Fabric Nylon PU Coated White 250 
GSM, Shirting Angola Drab, Fabric Pile Knitted White, and Nappa 
Leather Grey Waterproof etc. Gloves ECW Inner is made of specia lly developed three layers 
laminated fabric. Outer layer is Polyester knitted fabric, middle layer is Polyurethane foam with 
Polyurethane adhesive film and inner layer is Polyester Pile knitted fabric.   Thermal Insulation Value 
of gloves is approx 5.0 tog, which is sufficient for the intended purpose. These Gloves are available in 
three sizes viz. Small, Medium and Large. 
Its overall weight is 400 gm/ pair (Outer and Inner). Bulk production for Qty 1, 50,000 pairs of 
Gloves ECW Outer and Inner has been suc cessfully completed against DGOS, New Delhi 
requirement vide S.O. No. A/59598/ECC&E/Gloves Leather/DGOS/OS -PII/PROC SEC/2162 Dt. 6 th 
March, 2013, under AHSP of DMSRDE, Kanpur of worth Rs. 22.0 Crore (approx). Free flow bulk 
productionisation of this item h as been established.  The product is ready for ToT to industries for 
mass production for the future requirements of Indian Armed Forces. 
Outer Gloves 
Inner Gloves