--- PAGE 1 ---

Page 1 of 1 
 
Bulk production of cyclo organopentasilane for deposition of Silicon thin 
films 
The amorphous silicon and crystalline silicon thin films are used for electronic 
applications such as LED, solar panels, TFT, sensors, display devices etc. 
Conventional processes use organometallic precursors such as Si, SiC, GaAs, 
GaP, AIN, CdSe, CdHgTe, CuGaInSe to prepare electronic thin films. The present 
research is related to non -pyrophoric and non -corrosive precursors cyclic 
organopentasilane precursors used in bulk quantity for electronic applications and 
the process for preparing the same. These processes require highly sophisticated 
instrumentation facility like C VI, CVD or laser ablation etc. Out of these the Si thin 
films have  attracted most of the users due to their longer life and comparatively 
easy availability of raw materials. For such appli cations SiH 4 and SiCl 4 are most 
commonly used precursor materials. Due to pyrophoric nature of silanes, handling 
and processing of these materials required high degree of manipulation skills and 
highly sophisticated processing devices which restrict easy commercialization of the 
products and technology.  
The hygroscopic and corrosive nature of SiCl 4 also restrict its applications and due 
to generation of HCl, the Si thin films could not be grown beyond the certain 
thickness thus further limiting its applicat ions. So continuously attempts are going 
on to use oligomeric / polymeric Si materials for deposition of Si thin films. Recently 
pentasilane has shown very promising results as LED materials. But the synthetic 
processes of these materials are also very cumbersome though safer to handle.            
Further, the CVD and other thermal techniques are being used for deposition of 
amorphous Si and crystalline silicon thin films, which are very costly and also 
precursors used in these techniques are highly toxic a nd pyrophoric in nature. 
Hence there is a global demand to develop simplest techniques for the deposition 
of Si thin films.   
DMSRDE, Kanpur has successfully optimized the technology for “Bulk production of 
cycloorganopentasilane for deposition of Si thin films”more particularly to a non -
pyrophoric and non -corrosive precursors cyclic organopentasilane precursors for 
deposition of silicon thin films in bulk quantity for electronic applications. The 
present invention also relates to the process for preparatio n of  
cyclicorganopentasilane.