--- PAGE 1 ---

 Biodegradable Packaging Materials 
 
 Excessive usage of plastics accompanied by its relatively  low cost and easy availability started 
an era popularly known as the age of “throw away living”, where plastics are indiscriminately thrown 
after its single use. This has resulted in accumulation of plastic waste everywhere, which is disturbing 
and damaging the earth’s ecosystem. Govt of India introduced Plastic Waste Management Rules, 
2016, prohibiting identified single use plastic items. Recently the Ministry of Environment, Forest, 
and Climate Change (MoEFCC) also released guidelines to phase out single use plastics vide the 
Plastic Waste Management (Amendment) Rules, 2022.  As an alternate to non-degradable single use 
plastics, Defence Food Research Laboratory (DFRL), Mysore  has developed a technology to make 
biodegradable packaging materials (Carry Bags) , which decomposes in a specific environment such 
as water, soil, compost etc under a short period of time. 
 
 DFRL-DRDO has developed Biodegradable Packaging Materials t echnology.  This technology 
is mainly focused on the utilization of biodegradable and compostable polymers such as 
Polybutylene Adipate co- Terephthalate (PBAT), Poly Lactic Acid (PLA), starch etc for the production 
of flexible films for applications such as carry bags, p ouches, bags etc. A suitable formulation was 
developed which can be blown into films using extrusi on film blowing technique. The physico-
mechanical properties of the film were carried out using a tensile tester as per to ASTM D 882 and 
found to have sufficient strength for using in carry bag applications. These films were tested for their 
biodegradability and found to meet the BIS standard for compostable plastics. A soil burial test was 
conducted, where thee samples were found to gradually d isintegrate and the biodegraded within 
the stipulated time period. During the process, erosion  holes were first observed in the sample 
followed by breaking down into residual fragments. Late r the film completely disappeared, 
indicating complete biodegradation of the film. Weight l oss percentage was also recorded during 
the test period. 
 
The technology is amenable for bulk production with vari ed thickness as per the end user 
requirement. Any existing carry bag manufacturer can use th is technology to manufacture 
compostable and environmentally friendly films and carry bags. Considering the widespread usage 
of single use plastics in various fields, biodegradable and compostable plastics are having the 
potential to replace existing non degradable plastics. There is a growing demand for biodegradable 
plastics, which degrade in the environment, to establish a more sustainable society and to solve our 
environmental and waste management problems.