--- PAGE 1 ---

 
Expression of Interest 
TOT OF ON-BOARD ELECTRONICS SUB-SYSTEM  
FOR ADVANCED LIGHT TOWED ARRAY SONAR (ALTAS) 
 
1. Introduction 
 
NPOL, Kochi, a premier laboratory under Defence R&D Organisation invites 
Expression of Interest (EOI) from Indian manufacturer(s) having sufficient experience, 
expertise and willingness to undertake Production of ON-BOARD ELECTRONICS  
SUB-SYSTEM for an Advanced Light Towed Array Sonar (ALTAS).  
 
 
 
 
 
Block Diagram of On-board Electronics Sub-System 
 
The on-board electronics Sub-system processes the information received from the 
Wet End Electronics and displays credentials of contact. The on-board electronics 
sub-system is housed in 6 cabinets. There are two numbers of Display cum processor 
cabinets, one power supply cabinet, two power amplifier cabinet and one data 
recorder cabinet 
Technical specifications are enclosed at annexure 1 
 
 


--- PAGE 2 ---

2. RESPONSIBILITIES OF MANUFACTURER OF ONBOARD ELECTRONICS  
SUB-SYSTEM 
ALTAS is a multidisciplinary sonar system consisting of technologies of transducers, 
mechanical engineering, ocean engineering, electrical and electronics engineering, 
power electronics and software. Realisation of the entire sonar system under one roof 
may not be practical because of the diversity of technologies, know -how and skill set 
required. And hence the hardware content of the sonar has been realised as 
subsystems through specialised Indian industries and integrated as ALTAS sonar 
system by incorporating dedicated software developed by NPOL. The responsibility of 
its installation onboard a naval ship and the role of lead system integrator was 
undertaken by NPOL. The performance validation of the system was done under the 
leadership of  NPOL and with the association of Indian Navy through a series of 
structured sea trials with real targets deployed at strategic locations. Performance 
validation has since been completed, the Indian Navy will shortly evaluate the system 
as per mutually agreed trial plan and procedure.  Indian Navy has plans to induct a 
few ALTAS sonar systems for its front line war ships soon after evaluation trials. The 
purpose of this EOI is to identify one / two potential Manufacturer for ALTAS On-board 
Electronic System .    Responsibi lities of Sub-system manufacturer of ‘On -board 
Electronic System’ is further elaborated in the succeeding sections. 
 
2.1 Supply of Sub -system to Lead System Integrator  (LSI) nominated by Indian 
Navy/NPOL 
a. Supply order will be placed on the manufacturer by a  LSI nominated by Indian 
Navy/NPOL. 
b. Manufacturer will supply the On -board electronics system as per TOT Documents. 
Detailed Specifications, Quality policy / program for component level to sub-system 
level, ATP, FAT’s, HAT’s and SAT’s documents and  BOM  will be provided in the 
TOT documents. 
c. The manufacturer will field sub-system against RFP from LSI by submitting 
Technical, commercial and price bids appropriately. 
 
2.2 Organising QT/ET/ATP at the premises of sub-system manufacturer. 
a. Manufacturer has to organise QT/ET at the manufacturers end as per sub -system 
acceptance document provided in the TOT document.  

--- PAGE 3 ---

b. Manufacturer has to conduct FAT’s at the manufacturers end as per sub -system 
Factory acceptance document provided in the TOT document befor e despatch of 
sub-system for system Integration. 
 
2.3 Auditing of Quality Process 
a. Manufacturer will ensure auditing of quality process by competent authority 
responsible for quality assurance as spelt out by LSI. 
b. LSI will have the right to nominate Competent a uthority responsible for quality 
assurance and inspection at the manufacturers premises. 
 
 
3. TOT TERMS 
3.1 As per DRDO Guidelines for Transfer of Technology (TOT), the first TOT will normally 
be given to the industry associated during development on priority so as to ensure high 
quality of manufacture within the limitations in hand-holding support of DRDO. 
 
 
3.2 TOT will be given on non -exclusive basis only. The number of license on non -exclusive 
basis will be restricted. However , additional licence if required will be given by DRDO 
on need basis. The intellectual property rights shall always remain with DRDO.  
 
3.3 The amount and payment stages of TOT fee will be as prescribed by DRDO.  As per 
current guidelines it is upto 20% of its developmental cost. 
 
3.4 Royalty fee @ 2% of the annual sales will be applicable uniformly for all industries. 
 
3.5  Technical assessment of the in dustries submitting EOI’s will be carried out by a 
Technical assessment committee for verification of the technical and financial 
capability/capacity of the industry. 
 
3.6 Eligible parties will have to sign Confidentiality & Non -Disclosure Agreement (CNDA) 
with DRDO for technical discussion including specifications, following which they shall 
be considered for giving Transfer of Technology (TOT) on non-exclusive basis. 
 

--- PAGE 4 ---

3.7 TOT to industry will be given based on their manufacturing capability, assurance on 
quality and capacity of production apart from other terms and conditions.  
 
3.8 The licencing agreement for transfer of technology (LATOT) which is to be signed will 
be as per the template approved by Department of Legal affairs. Ministry of Law and 
Justice. 
 
3.9  DRDO shall have the march-in rights to use the IP for its own use in the interest of the 
Govt. of India without any restrictions, irrespective of the nature of licence granted. 
 
3.10 DRDO shall have the right to Revoke the Licence if the company fails to adhere to the 
terms and conditions especially with respect to adherence of Quality. 
 
3.11 The firm expressing interest should be technically sound to Procure/manufacture, 
supply and maintain the system with requisite quality standards. 
 
4. EOI TERMS 
Interested Industries may write  along with their company profile, financial & technical 
capabilities etc. as per the following format  to Director, NPOL, Kochi and copy to  Director 
DIITM on the following addresses  within 45 days of this advertisement. 
 
Director, NPOL 
DRDO, Min. of Defence,  
Thrikkakara P.O. 
Kochi-682021 
Contact No - 0484 2424878 
FAX : 0484-2424858 
Email: director@npol.drdo.in 
Director, DIITM  
Room No 446 DRDO Bhawan 
DRDO HQrs Ministry of Defence  
RajajiMarg New Delhi – 110011  
Contact No - (011) 23016216 / 23007446 
FAX No. 011-23793008 
 
a) Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian 
Companies Act, 1956)  
b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.  
c) Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  
d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  

--- PAGE 5 ---

e) Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/ shareholders, 
foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt. 
of India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI).  
f) Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  
g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents etc. held by the company.  
h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.  
i) Record of past performance (e.g. Supply orders executed against Ministry of 
Defence orders, public sectors and paramilitary forces, if any.  
j) Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production 
capacities) and technical expertise.  
k) List of Testing and Support equipment. 
l) ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  
m) Relevant clearances from the authorities/ ministries (if any) 
n) Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant 
financial and commercial risks.  
o) Capacity/Capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and 
service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 
 

--- PAGE 6 ---

Annexure 1 
Technical Specification of Display Cum Processing Cabinet 
Overall Dimension : 600 mm(W)×480 mm(D)×1700mm(H) 
Approx. weight (including 
electronics) 
: 200 Kg 
Mounting : Floor mounting 
Connectivity : MIL 38999 connectors for Ethernet, USB and Power 
Power Input : 230 V 50Hz AC 
Health monitoring system : Health monitoring system to monitor the PS, fan 
failures and temperature of air at different places 
inside the rack, shall be available over RS232/422 & 
Ethernet. 
Off the shelf electronic components which are installed in the console: 
Display Monitor : 20.1 inch LCD Monitor- 2 Nos 
Touch input device : Minimum 10” TID  
VPX Chassis  VPX chassis- 1 No. The VPX chassis has a custom 
made VPX mother board, with provision to populate 8 
TI DSP Boards, 4 Power PC Boards, 2 Gigabit 
Ethernet boards, the required power supply, and 
related cooling arrangements. 
TI DSP Boards  TMS boards-8 Nos. 
Power Pc boards  Power PC boards-4 Nos. 
VGA Boards  VGA boards in XMC/PMC-2 Nos. 
KVM Switch  Two port KVM switch- 1 No. 
Keyboard, trackball  101key keyboard, Backlight option and Integrated track 
ball with three buttons 
Gigabit Ethernet boards : 2 Nos. Managed level 3 compact Ethernet switch 
A V Recorder : Compact Audio Video Recorder 
Audio : Compact dual speakers and head phone, Hooter 
Design of off the shelf electronic components not included in the TOT  
 
Technical Specification of Server Cabinet  
Overall Dimension : 600 mm(W)×480mm(D)×1700mm(H) 
Approx. weight (including 
electronics) 
: 250 Kg 
Mounting : Floor mounting 
Connectivity : MIL 38999 connectors for Ethernet, USB and Power 
Power Input : 230 V 50Hz AC 
Health monitoring system : Health monitoring system to monitor the PS, fan 
failures and temperature of air at different places 
inside the rack, shall be available over RS232/422 & 
Ethernet. 

--- PAGE 7 ---

Off the shelf electronic components which are installed in the console: 
Rugged servers : Rugged Server – Type1 – 3 Nos 
Rugged Server – Type2 – 1 No 
 
Gigabit Ethernet boards : Managed level 3 compact Ethernet switch-1No. 
KVM Switch  Eight port KVM switch to provide support for all the  
servers -1 No 
Display Monitor : 20.1 inch LCD Monitor- 1 No. Monitor, keyboard, trackball 
shall be mounted on a retractable tray of 1U size. 
Keyboard  1 No. 
Trackball  1 No. 
Design of off the shelf electronic components not included in the TOT  
 
Technical Specification of Power amplifier cabinet  
Overall Dimension : 500mm (W) X 540mm (D) X 1700 (H) 
Approx. weight (including 
electronics) 
: 250 Kg 
Mounting : Floor mounting 
Connectivity : MIL 38999 connectors for Ethernet and Power 
Power Input : 380 V, 3, 50 Hz 3 wire and 230 V, 1, 50Hz  
Health monitoring system : Health monitoring system to monitor the PS, fan 
failures and temperature of air at different places 
inside the rack 
Off the shelf electronic components which are installed in the console: 
Power amplifier : Power Amplifier – 3 Nos 
HTPSUs : HTPSUs – 2 Nos.  
LTPSU  LTPSUs – 4 Nos. 
VME/VPX Hybrid Chassis  
 
: 6U backplane with 2 VME slots & 5 VPX slots with 
appropriate power supply 
Single TMS Board 
 
: Single TMS board-1No 
 
Design of off the shelf electronic components not included in the TOT  
 
Technical Specification of Power Supply cabinet 
Overall Dimension : 500mm (W) X 540mm (D) X 1700 (H) 
Approx. weight (including 
electronics) 
: 300 Kg 
Mounting : Floor mounting 
Connectivity : MIL 38999 connectors for Power 
Power Input : 380 V, 3, 50 Hz 3 wire 
Power output  Output voltage of 3 phase 400V p-p and 230V p-n 

--- PAGE 8 ---

Health monitoring system : Health monitoring system to monitor the PS, fan 
failures and temperature of air at different places 
inside the rack 
Delta to Star Transformer 
with 20 KVA rating 
: Delta to Star Transformer with 20 KVA ratingwith:-  
Provision for Input supply of 380/400/415/440V 50Hz 
3 Phase .  Output voltage of 3 phase 400V p-p and 
230V p-n  
Delta to Star Transformer 
with 2 KVA rating 
: Provision for Input supply of 380/400/415/440V 50Hz 
3 Phase. Output voltage of 3 phase 400V p-p and 
230V p-n. 
Off the shelf electronic components which are installed in the console: 
DC Linear Power Supply : DC Linear Power Supply – 1 No. 
Design of off the shelf electronic components not included in the TOT