--- PAGE 1 ---

NMRL-136 black & white paint for submarine rubber tiles 
(NMRL-136 BWP)
Novel specialty paints are developed by NMRL for protection of rubber tiles of
submarines. This paint has been developed in black and white shades. It is a single
coat system for direct application on rubber substrate. 
The  essential  ingredients  of  this  paint  are  elastomeric  polymer,  pigments,
solvents, and specialty additives. Specialty additives in the paint formulation provide
superior  adhesion, thixotropicity, wetting, dispersion and defoaming properties. This
paint can be prepared using ball mill and high  speed disperser. The paint can be
applied using brush/rollers and dries to form a hard and tough barrier coating to protect
the rubber tiles from seawater as well as weathering.
Salient features of coating
 Adhesion on rubber tiles 
 Direct application on rubber tiles
 Weather resistance 
 Resistant to water, alkali and oil
 Excellent flexibility and impact strength
Interested Industries are requested  to forward their Expression of Interest (EOI) to
Director NMRL, Ambernath (with attachments of supporting documents) with a copy to
Director DIITM, DRDO HQ (without attachment) on following address:-
To,
Director
Naval Materials Research Laboratory (NMRL)
DRDO, Ministry of Defence, Government of India
PO Anand Nagar
Ambernath (East)-421506
Phone : 0251-2623131
Fax : 0251-2623004
E-mail ID : director[dot]nmr[at]gov[dot]in
Copy to
Director
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM)
Page 1 of 2

--- PAGE 2 ---

Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, DRDO HQrs, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110011
Phone: 011-23013209/23015291
Fax: 011-23793008
Email: diitm[dot]hqr[at]gov[dot]in
List of Support documents to be attached with EoI
a) Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian
Companies Act, as amended time to time)
b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.
c) Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.
d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period.
e) Details  of  shareholding/  ownership  pattern  especially  foreign  partners/
shareholders, foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to
the prevailing Govt of India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment
(FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.
f) Annual budget for R&D during last three years.
g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.
h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.
i) Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of
Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).
j) Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  machines  and  their  production
capacities) and technical expertise.
k) List of Testing and Support equipment’s
l) ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification
m) Relevant clearances from the authorities/ ministries (if any)
n) Capacity  and  capability  to  undertake  developmental  work  and  to  accept
attendant financial and commercial risks.
o) Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales
and service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.
p) PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material,
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc (if applicable).
q) Undertaking from company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent
Directors, non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in
any corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities.
r) Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by the
industry seeking ToTs.
Page 2 of 2