--- PAGE 1 ---

 
Light Weight Structural Fire Fighting Suit  
 
The Centre for Fire, Explosive and Environment Safety  (CFEES), DRDO has developed a 
structural firefighting suit that has been engineered to offer increased flame-resistant 
protection and comfort level. 
 
At present, the structural firefighting clothing being worn by the Indian firefighters conform 
to EN46 9. The structural fire -suits developed by CFEES, offers a much higher level of 
protection conforming to NFPA 1971 (Thermal Protective Performance > 44) without 
adding any weight obligation. The entire suit, including coat and trousers weighs < 2.8 kgs. 
The clothing developed is an ensemble of three layers; each having its own role to play.  
Outer shell 
The most durable component of the fire suit’s assembly, and has the following functions: 
 Protects against heat and flames  
 Protects against water and chemicals 
 Protect against abrasion, cuts and lacerations  
Moisture barrier  
 
The middle layer which helps the firefighters stays cooler and comfortable, by serving the 
following functions.  
 
 Allows vapour to move out of the body. 
 Provides extra protection against water penetration. 
 Provides protection against heat and other chemicals. 
 
Thermal barrier 
 
This is the innermost layer in the fire suit assembly, serving the following functions: 
 Provides insulation by creating air cushions and micro climate chambers to favour 
comfort and minimize heat stress.  
 Increases the wearer comfort level by wicking away moisture away from the body.  
 Facilitates easy donning and doffing with a thin inner liner providing a sense of 
comfort. 
 Protects the moisture barrier from any damage from within.  
 
 
 

--- PAGE 2 ---

 
1. Industries are requested to submit their expression of Interest for ToT within 
21 days of publishing of technology on DRDO web-page. Interested companies/ 
industries are forward the sealed bids against this EoI (two separate sealed 
envelopes in one sealed cover (i) Technical Offer: Application cum Industry 
Form as per Annexure –II of Appendix ‘D’ to with all supporting documents to 
Lab/Estt. (ii) Commercial Offer: In a separate sealed enveloped specifying the ToT 
fee offered by industry) to following address:- 
 
To, 
 
The Director 
Centre for Fire, Explosive and Environment Safety (CFEES) 
Brig. S.K. Mujumdar Marg, Timarpur-Delhi-110054 
E-mail: director.cfees@gov.in 
Fax No: 011-23819547 
 
2.  A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:- 
 
To,  
The Director, 
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM), 
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011 
E-mail: diitm.hqr@gov.in 
Phone No. 011-23007446 
Fax-011-23793008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 3 ---

 
Annexure-II to Appendix ‘D’ 
 
 
All industries interested in se eking ToT are requested to apply in the format given below. 
Kindly fill in the fields. The list of documents to be attached is provided in Annexure – I. 
Kindly provide the reference of page no. of supporting document in the relevant field of 
form. 
PART-1  
General Information 
(Please enclose documents in support of information provided) 
1.  Name of the Technology requested for 
Technology Transfer (Technology name 
and concerned Lab, Category) 
 
2.  Name of the industry/ organization  
3.  Complete Address and other details  
Registered Office 
State 
Phone No 
Fax 
Email 
Website 
 
Factory 
State 
Phone No 
Fax 
Email 
Website 
 
4.  Point of Contact  
Name 
Designation 
Address 
Mobile No 
Ph No 
Email ID 
 
5.  NAME OF CMD/ MD /PARTNERS/ 
PROPRIETOR/ etc  
Name 
Designation 
Address 
Mobile No 
Ph No 
Email ID 
 
6.  Date of Incorporation of company  
7.  Foreign Direct Investment in company (if 
any in %) 
 
8.  Shareholding pattern  
9.  Turn over as per Audited Balance Sheet for 
the preceding three years. 
Year ____ 
Year ____ 
Year ____ 
 
10.  Annual budget for R&D during last three 
years (if any) 
Year ____  
Year ____  
Year ____ 
 
11.  Income Tax returns for the preceding three  

--- PAGE 4 ---

years period  
Year ____ 
Year ____  
Year ____ 
12.  Nature of company 
DPSU, Private Limited, Public Limited, 
Partnership, Proprietary, Ex- Serviceman Unit 
 
13.  Category of industry 
Large Scale, Medium Scale, Small Scale, 
Micro, Startup 
 
14.  MSME Registration No  
15.  Certificates of registration as a 
manufacturing unit, if any. 
 
16.  If Startup, DPIIT Registration No  
17.  UDYOG AADHAR No  
18.  PAN Number  
19.  Details of Industrial license for defence 
manufacturing issued by DPIIT (if any) 
 
20.  Details of PESO license (if any)  
21.  GST Number  
22.  Nature of business 
Manufacturing/ Sole Selling or Authorized 
Agent/ Assembler/ Traders/ Dealer/ Processor/ 
Repacker/ Others  
 
23.  Details of current products and services 
Products and services Supplied (please 
specify Govt/ Domestic market/ Export)  
 
24.  Record of past performance 
(e.g., Supply orders executed against of 
Ministry of Defence orders, Public Sectors and 
Paramilitary Forces, if any). 
 
25.  Details of registration with 
NSIC / SSI, DGS&D, other Defence 
Department, other Govt. Dept, membership of 
FICCI/ASSOCHAM/CII or other Industrial  
Association 
(Attach relevant copies of registration 
letters) 
 
26.  Have you already taken any technology 
from DRDO (If yes, give details attaching 
separate sheet) 
 
Name of the Technology, Lab, Year, License 
number & Status 
 
27.  ISO/ ISI certification or any other 
certification (If yes, give details)  
 
28.  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ 
ministries (if any) 
 
29.  Capacity and capability to undertake 
developmental work and to accept 
attendant financial and commercial risks. 
 
30.  Capacity/capability to market the product 
through the marketing network, sales and 
service network, reliability to maintain 
confidentiality. 
 
 
PART-2 

--- PAGE 5 ---

Infrastructure and other Information 
1.  Total area of factory  
Covered (m2),  
Uncovered (m2), 
Bonded space available (m2) 
 
2.  Ownership of factory 
Self-owned, partnership, rental 
 
3.  Electric power 
Sanctioned 
Installed 
Standby (if any) 
 
4.  Availability of adequate infrastructure  
(List of machines and their production capacities) 
and technical expertise 
 
5.  Name of bank & A/c No Name of bank 
A/c type 
A/c no 
Address of the bank  
Phone:  
Email: 
 
 
6. Details of current products: 
S.No Type Description Licensed/installed 
capacity 
Annual production for 
preceding 3 years 
     
      
7. Details of foreign collaboration, if any 
S.No Product Name and address of 
collaborator 
Year Remarks 
     
     
 
8. Details of products developed for services 
S.No Nomenclature of stores Order No. and date Remarks 
    
    
 
9. Please give details of important facilities & infrastructure as per 
following format for: 
(a) Production 
(b) Unconventional, special m/c 
(c) Testing & quality control facilities  
S.No Description of 
m/c 
Make & model Qty Date of 
purchase 
Remarks 
      
      
 
10. Furnish  the following details with relevant certificates and documents 
(a) R&D facilities available       : 
(b) Inspection quality control of raw material components  : 
(c) Assistance from central agency for testing / calibration etc. : 
(d) laboratory and drawing office facility     : 
11.  Principal customers: 

--- PAGE 6 ---

S. No Name & address S.O No 
and date 
Date of last 
supply 
Products 
supplied 
Value 
      
      
 
12. Future plans (if any) in respect of expansion programme/ installation 
of additional machines/ test facilities etc. 
13. Name of the technology requested for transfer 
(give self-assessment of your capability to absorb the technology) 
 
14. Details of employee as on date on firm’s pay roll 
PERMANENT 
Category Post Held Number Qualification Total Service 
Technical Prod. Manager 
Q.C. Manager 
Supervisor 
Testing Staff (QC) 
Skilled workers 
Unskilled workers, etc 
   
Administrative Purchase Manager 
Accounts Officer  
Office Superintendent 
Clerical 
Others, etc 
   
 
TEMPORARY 
Category Post Held Number Qualification Total Service 
Technical Prod. Manager 
Q.C. Manager 
Supervisor 
Testing Staff (QC) 
Skilled workers 
Unskilled workers, 
etc 
   
Administrative Purchase Manager 
Accounts Officer  
Office 
Superintendent 
Clerical 
Others, etc 
   
 
DECLARATION: 
I / we confirm that the information furnished in Part 1 & 2 above is correct. In 
the event of any information given by me / us is found incorrect / false at any time, 
I / we understand our EoI for ToT will be cancelled/ rejected without notice, beside 
any other appropriate action against me / us. 
 
Industry seal           Authorized signatory 
Name(s) in capital 
Designation and seal of authorized signatory 
 
Date:   
Place: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 7 ---

 
 
Annexure – I 
List of Support documents to be attached with EoI 
 
(a)  Memorandum and Art icles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian 
Companies Act, as amended time to time) 
(b)  Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 
(c)  Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  
(d)  Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  
(e)  Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/ shareholders, 
foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt 
of India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct In vestment (FDI)/DIPP norms as 
applicable.  
(f)  Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  
(g)  Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 
(h)  Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 
 (i)  Record of past per formance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of 
Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  
(j)  Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production 
capacities) and technical expertise.  
(k)  List of Testing and Support equipment’s 
 (l)  ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  
(m)  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 
(n)  Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant 
financial and commercial risks.  
(o)  Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and 
service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 
(p)  PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material , 
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  
(q)  Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent 
Directors, non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any 
corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities. 
(r)  Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by the 
industry seeking ToTs. 
(s)  Application cum Industry Assessment Form