--- PAGE 1 ---

 “Ambulance Bike -Rakshita”
In low intensity combat areas immediate evacuation of security personnel of our
security and paramilitary forces operating in the naxal-affected area is always
fraught with danger due to heavily IED mined, non-existent roads, congested
streets or interior locations. Soldiers move either on foot or on bikes due to
unpaved and narrow  roads,  to  eliminate the risk of being caught in an IED
explosion  or  of  a  surprise  attack.  Operational  problem  of  not-well  equipped
ambulance and non availability of trained medics make the situation even worse
to provide medical aid to injured soldiers. 
Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Science (INMAS), a Delhi-based DRDO
laboratory, has developed a bike ambulance called “Rakshita” to overcome the
problems faced by our security forces to provide immediate first-aid and fast
evacuation of  injured soldier  to nearest health centre. Rakshita comprises  a
special  reclaimable  quick  fit-n  and  fit  out  “Pillion  Casualty  Evacuation  Seat”
made  from  high  strength  stainless  steel  or  aluminium  alloy.  The  seat  is
ergonomically  designed  to  take  care  of  the  body  contours  and  ensure  the
comfort of the patient. It features an adjustable headrest, lumbar support and
movable arm rest and can be adjusted into comfortable semi sleeping position.
It is equipped with basic medical equipment with the capability of providing
emergency  medical  aid  at  a  remote  site  and  during  transportation  of  the
injured/sick from the site to the nearest medical facility/hospital. It is equipped
with first aid box, emergency medical equipment like splints, head immobilizer,
oxygen  supplying  kit.  Telescopic  I.V.  fluid  bag-stand  and  vital  physiological
parameter measuring equipment with blue tooth communication capability. The
vital parameters of the injured can be seen by the paramedic cum driver through
the monitor fitted in front of him. The injured physiological parameters can be
transmitted  to  nearby  health  facility  also  for  further  necessary  preparation
before reaching the injured. It is also fitted with siren and flasher warning light
for easy access.
The compact Rakshita can reach at the required site within the golden hours to
ensure the spot first aid along with quick and effective rescue of the causality
Cost-effective Rakshita can also be effectively used in narrow congested un-
motorable bylines and road of any city where medical contingencies cannot be
provided by a conventional ambulance.