--- PAGE 1 ---

QUAD CHANNEL ROTARY ELECTRO MECHANICAL ACTUATOR 
(QC REMA-0.4)
Technology Brief 
The Rotary Electro Mechanical Actuation System (QC REMA-0.4) is one of the
key  components  of  aerospace  vehicles  playing  a  vital  role  in  achieving  the
manoeuvring of the system. 
The Actuation System (QC REMA-0.4) has to fulfil the requirements of being able
to  function  reliably  in  a  typical  environment  involving  adverse  and  extreme
climatic conditions, field transportation and storage conditions imposing severe
vibrations, bumps, mechanical shocks and extreme temperature conditions.
1. Min Facility/ Capability required at the time of submission of EoI : The
participating firms shall meet following essential criterion:
a) The  firm’s  turnover  should  be  greater  than  Rs  25  Cr  per  annum  for
preceding consecutive three year period.
b) As an essential criterion, the firm should have demonstrated capability of
development/fabrication  &  assembly  of  Avionics  Systems  (similar  to
Electro Mechanical Systems and Servo Controller qualified and delivered
to  Ministry  of  Defence  /  Defence  Establishments  /  Public  Sectors  /
Paramilitary  Forces  /  any  Government  agencies.  In  addition,  prior
experience in development / fabrication of avionics systems with expertise
in integration and handling should be possessed by the firm. (S.O copies
for the delivery of similar systems should be provided with EoI).
c) Expertise in Avionics grade hardware development, testing of the following
features is essential-
(i) BLDC Motors
(ii) Servo Controller
(iii) Gears.
(iv) MIL grade/ IPC class-3 PCBs 
(v) Multi-layer PCBs 
Page 1 of 10

--- PAGE 2 ---

For  the  above,  Relevant  Supply  Order  (SO)  copies  with  technical
specifications/ Scope of work & Inspection/ Acceptance Report (IR) copies
(Minimum 1 SO & IR and maximum 5 SO and IRs) and demonstration of
such  hardware.  Systems/Sub-systems  delivered  on  or  after  01  January
2018 will only be considered.
d) The participating firms shall have in-house facilities for components / PCBs
storage  in  controlled  environments  and  facilities  for  environmental  tests
(Climatic and Dynamic test facilities). 
(i) Humidity Controlled Storage facility
(ii) 10X Optical inspection system
(iii) ESD Safe Manual Soldering and rework facility
(iv) Controlled conformal coating facility
(v) PCB cleaning facility
(vi) ESD safe assembling and integration facility 
(vii) Test equipment such as multi-meters, oscilloscopes, isolation testers,
Function Generators, Frequency Response Analyzer
(viii) ESD safe Test bench for functional testing
(ix) Load Test facility for REMA.
e)  Previous  and  on-going  experience  of  delivery  of  similar  systems  with
clearance by Defence QA agencies like DGQA, MSQAA / R&QA, SSQAG,
RCI, CQA etc. is essential.
f) It is essential that the participating firms shall have ISO 9001:2015 /AS 9100D
certification.
2. Desirable  in-house  facilities  for  components  /  PCBs  storage  in  controlled
environments and facilities for environmental tests (Climatic and Dynamic test
facilities). 
a. SMT line for complete automated reflow certified by any QA agencies.
b. Climatic and Dynamic test facility with valid calibration certificates
c. Inspection systems: 3D X-Ray, Automated Optical Inspection equipment.
Relevant proof to be furnished for above.
d. Dynamometer for motor testing
3. DRDO Technical Team may visit and inspect the above facilities of industries
seeking ToT.
Page 2 of 10

--- PAGE 3 ---

4. The  industry  shall  have  experienced  and  skilled  manpower  for  fabrication,
inspection,  debugging,  testing  and  documentation  of  electro  mechanical
systems & electronics, established quality management system, willingness
and capability to setup specialized infrastructure.
a) Minimum Manpower requirement for Hardware development and testing
(i) Two Electronic Engineers B.E / B.Tech / M.Tech with domain expertise
of testing and debugging
(ii) Two IPC certified Electronics/ Electrical Diploma / ITI persons.
(iii) One IPC certified QC Electronics Engineer B.E / B.Tech with domain
expertise.
(iv) One QC Mechanical Engineers B.E / B.Tech with domain expertise.
(v) One Mechanical Diploma / ITI fitter for integration activity 
b) Expertise  in  Documentation:  Preparation  and  maintaining  records  of  each
stage involved in the realization of the Systems with QC approval such as line
card / log books
Relevant proof to be furnished for above.
c) If firm has collaboration (MoU) with other firms for certain function/ facilities,
assessment of firms with which there is an MoU will also be carried out . The
MoU between the firms should be valid for the period of license for ToT, if
awarded. 
5. Technical Assessment Committee (TAC) may seek additional document from the
industry and or may visit the industry to verify the claims made by the industry.
6. Technology  Absorption  (TA)  Certificate:  Once  LAToT  is  signed  by  the
industry, ToT holder industry is required to produce actuator system (Actuator
and Controller) based on TTD received from DRDO and carry out  functional
demonstration to RCI to complete the Qualification and acceptance testing at
their own cost and submit a compliance report. The cost of testing and hardware/
software will be borne by ToT holder industry. The ToT holder industry also
should have established requisite infrastructure setup as required and indicated
in EoI (DRDO team may visit for inspection of established facilities).
On completion of above task satisfactorily, a technology absorption certificate will
be issued to the industry. The firm should take necessary steps to retain trained
manpower for the execution of production orders.
Page 3 of 10

--- PAGE 4 ---

Technology absorption certificate shall be obtained with in a period of 3 years
after receipt of LAToT, otherwise the LAToT may be revoked. TA certificate may
be required to participate in tenders.
Contact details :
Industries  seeking  ToT  should  send  their  Expression  of  interest  (EoI)  to
Director, RCI on the following address along with duly filled ‘Application cum
Industry Assessment Form’ with all supporting documents via email.
Director, 
Research Centre Imarat
DRDO Lab
Vignayankancha
Hyderabad – 500 069
Phone no: 040-24306000/6001
Fax No: 040-24306002
Email ID: director[dot]rci[at]gov[dot]in
A copy of ‘Application cum Industry Assessment Form’ to be forwarded to
Director  DIIQM,  DRDO  HQ  on  the  following  address  for  information  via
email:-
Director
Directorate of Industry Interface & Quality Management (DIIQM)
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, DRDO HQrs,
Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110011
Phone: 011-23013209/23015291
Fax: 011-23793008
Email: diitm[dot]hqr[at]gov[dot]in 
Application cum Industry Assessment Form
All industries are requested to fill in the form given below and provide supporting
documents (as applicable). Kindly provide the reference of page no. of supporting
document in the relevant field of form. The list of documents to be attached is
provided in Annexure – I. 
P      A      R      T      -      1       
Page 4 of 10

--- PAGE 5 ---

General Information
(Please fill the form and enclose documents in support of information 
provided)
1. Name of the Technology requested for
Technology Transfer (Technology 
name and concerned Lab, Category)
Page no of
enclosure
2. Name of the industry/ organization
3. Complete Address and other details
Registered Office
State
Phone No
Fax
Email
Website
Factory
State
Phone No
Fax
Email
Website
4. Point of Contact
Name
Designation
Address
Mobile No
Ph No
Email ID
5. NAME OF CMD/ MD /PARTNERS/ 
PROPRIETOR/ etc
Name
Designation
Address
Mobile No
Ph No
Email ID
6. Date of Incorporation of company
7. Foreign Direct Investment in company
(if any in %)
8. Shareholding pattern
9. Turn over as per Audited Balance 
Sheet for the preceding three years.
Year ____
Year ____
Year ____
10. Annual budget for R&D during last 
three years (if any)
Year ____
Year ____
Year ____
11. Income Tax returns for the preceding 
Page 5 of 10

--- PAGE 6 ---

three years period
Year ____
Year ____
Year ____
12. Nature of company
DPSU, Private Limited, Public Limited, 
Partnership, Proprietary, Ex- Serviceman
Unit
13. Category of industry
Large Scale, Medium Scale, Small Scale,
Micro, Startup
14. MSME Registration No
15. Certificates of registration as a 
manufacturing unit, if any.
16. If Startup, DPIIT Registration No
17. UDYOG AADHAR No
18. PAN Number
19. Details of Industrial license for 
defence manufacturing issued by 
DPIIT (if any)
20. Details of PESO license (if any) Not 
applicable
21. GST Number
22. Nature of business
Manufacturing/ Sole Selling or Authorized
Agent/ Assembler/ Traders/ Dealer/ 
Processor/ Repacker/ Others
23. Details of current products and 
services
Products and services Supplied (please 
specify Govt/ Domestic market/ Export)
24. Record of past performance
(e.g., Supply orders executed against of 
Ministry of Defence orders, Public 
Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).
25. Details of registration with
NSIC / SSI, DGS&D, other Defence 
Department, other Govt. Dept, 
membership of FICCI/ASSOCHAM/CII or
other Industrial Association
(Attach relevant copies of registration 
letters)
26. Have you already taken any 
technology from DRDO (If yes, give 
details attaching separate sheet)
Name of the Technology, Lab, Year, 
License number & Status
27. ISO/ ISI certification or any other 
certification (If yes, give details)
Page 6 of 10

--- PAGE 7 ---

28. Relevant clearances form the 
authorities/ ministries (if any)
29. Capacity and capability to undertake 
developmental work and to accept 
attendant financial and commercial 
risks.
30. Capacity/capability to market the 
product through the marketing 
network, sales and service network, 
reliability to maintain confidentiality.
P      A      R      T      -      2  
Infrastructure and other Information
1. Total area of factory
Covered (m2),
Uncovered (m2),
Bonded space available (m2)
2. Ownership of factory
Self-owned, partnership, rental
3. Electric power
Sanctioned
Installed
Standby (if any)
4. Availability of adequate infrastructure
(List of machines and their production capacities) and 
technical expertise
5. Name of bank & A/c No Name of bank
A/c type
A/c no
Address of the bank
Phone:
Email:
6. Details of current products:
S.No Type Description Licensed/installed 
capacity
Annual production for 
preceding 3 years
7. Details of foreign collaboration, if any
S.No Product Name and address of collaborator Year Remarks
Page 7 of 10

--- PAGE 8 ---

8. Details of products developed for services
S.No Nomenclature of stores Order No. and date Remarks
9. P lease give details of important facilities & infrastructure as 
per following format for:
a) Production
b) Unconventional, special m/c
c) Testing & quality control facilities 
S.No Description of
m/c
Make & model Qty Date of
purchase
Remarks
10. Furnish  the following details with relevant certificates and
documents
a)R&D facilities available
b) Inspection quality control of raw material components
c)Assistance from central agency for testing / calibration etc.
d) laboratory and drawing office facility
11. Principal  customers:
S. No Name & address S.O No and 
date
Date of last 
supply
Products 
supplied
Value
12. Future plans (if any) in respect of expansion programme/ 
installation of additional machines/ test facilities etc.
13. Name of the technology requested for transfer
(give self-assessment of your capability to absorb the technology)
14. Details  of employee as on date on firm’s pay roll
PERMANENT
Category Post Held Number Qualification Total 
Service
Page 8 of 10

--- PAGE 9 ---

Technical Prod. Manager
Q.C. Manager 
Supervisor
Testing Staff (QC)
Skilled workers
Unskilled workers, etc
Administrative Purchase Manager
Accounts Officer
Office Superintendent
Clerical
Others, etc
TEMPORARY
Category Post Held Number Qualification Total 
Service
Technical Prod. Manager
Q.C. Manager 
Supervisor
Testing Staff (QC)
Skilled workers
Unskilled workers, 
etc
Administrative Purchase Manager
Accounts Officer
Office 
Superintendent
Clerical
Others, etc
D      E      C      L      A      R      A      T      I      O      N       :
I / we confirm that the information furnished in Part 1 & 2 above is
correct. In the event of any information given by me / us is found incorrect /
false at any time, I / we understand our EoI for ToT will be cancelled/ rejected
without notice, beside any other appropriate action against me / us.
Industry seal         Authorized signatory
Name(s) in capital
Designation and seal of authorized 
signatory
Date: 
Place:
Page 9 of 10

--- PAGE 10 ---

Annexure – I  
List of supporting documents to be attached with EoI
(a) Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per
Indian Companies Act, as amended time to time)
(b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.
(c) Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.
(d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three-year period
(e) Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially  foreign  partners/
shareholders, foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere
to the prevailing Govt of India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct
Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.
(f) Annual budget for R&D during last three years.
(g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.
(h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel employed.
(i) Record  of  past  performance  (e.g.,  Supply  orders  executed  against  of
Ministry of Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).
(j) Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production
capacities) and technical expertise.
(k) List of testing and support equipment.
(l) ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification.
(m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any).
(n) Capacity  and  capability  to  undertake  developmental  work  and  to  accept
attendant financial and commercial risks.
(o) Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network,
sales and service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.
(p) Industrial license for defence manufacturing issued by DPIIT (if any).
(q) PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy
Material, explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with, it etc .
(r) Undertaking  from  company  seeking  ToT  that  none  of  its  Directors,
Independent  Directors,  non-executive  Directors,  Key  management
personnel are involved in any corrupt practices, unfair means/ illegal
activities.
Page 10 of 10