--- PAGE 1 ---

Page 1 of 3 
 
 
ADVANCED RIOT PROTECTION SUIT 
 
Recent incidences of extensive use of small arms in mob situations motivated us to 
develop a cost effect body protection gear. The developed ‘Advanced Riot Protection Suit 
(Level-IIIA protection)” is capable to provide additional protection against soft ba llistic for 
handling any type of riot situation without 
losing life of security personnel.  
It is a modular and formidable impact 
resistant full body suit providing complete 
safety to the police and paramilitary forces 
during riots, civil unrest and mob situations 
in low intensity conflicts. It helps to absorb 
the impact/shock load from stone or any 
other hard object like baton etc. in riot 
condition.  This is used to protect chest, 
shoulder, back, thigh, groin and pelvis. 
Additionally, it also safe guards the vital 
organs of security personal against 9 x 19 
mm ammunitions.  
 It is composed of 2 s et of layers system: outer soft armour panels, both at the front and 
back, plus shock -absorbing layer. The outer most set of layer of front, back and groin parts are 
made of soft ballistic layers providing extensive protection and resistance to the to the 9x19 mm 
ammunition. These parts are snug fit to the body and provide maximum protection to torso of 
body. The inner most set of layer of front and back panels are made of shock absorbing 
materials. The outermost of both front and back panels are supported by hard engineering plastic 
materials. Other part of the protection suit is made of sandwich structure of engineering plastic 
materials and shock absorbing materials. The inner material is soft to resist injury and minimize 
blunt trauma. Besides ballistic protection, engineering plastic made parts covers shoulders, 
biceps, forearm and elbow; these protectors are composed of hard shell with adjusted inner pad, 
which is covered with lining and provides protection from stone, and batons etc. Additionally, 
different parts of body protector are attached with velcro to provide firm griping.  The entire suit 
is designed ergonomically which provides ease of movement to the body's joint.  
Important Features: 
 Ergonomic and snug fit modular design  
 Light weight: 6 kg 
 Complete 3600 protection > 1.5 m² 
 Enhanced level of protection Stone, Baton , Knife ammunition (Level IIIA protection, 
front, back & groin parts) 
Advanced Riot Protection 
Suit 

--- PAGE 2 ---

Page 2 of 3 
 
Interested Industries are requested to forward their Expressi on of Interest (EoI) to Director 
DMSRDE, Kanpur (with attachments of supporting documents) with a copy of Director DIITM, 
DRDO HQ (without attachment) on following address:- 
 
To, 
Director 
Defence Materials and Stores Research & Development Establishment (DMSRDE) 
DRDO, Ministry of Defence, Government of India 
PO DMSRDE, GT Road, 
Kanpur-208013 
Phone : (0512) 2451759-78 
Fax : 0512-2450404/ 2404774 
  
E-mail ID : director[dot]dmsrde[at]gov[dot]in 
 
Copy to 
 
Director 
Directorate of Industry Interface & technology Management (DIITM) 
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, DRDO HQrs, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110011 
Phone: 011-23013209/23015291 
Fax: 011-23793008 
 
Email: diitm[dot]hqr[at]gov]dot]in 
 
List of Support documents to be attached with EoI  
a) Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian Companies 
Act, as amended time to time)  
b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.  
c) Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  
d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  
e) Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/ shareholders, foreign 
employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of India policies 
and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.  
f) Annual budget for R&D during last three years.   
g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.  
h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.  
i) Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of Defence 
orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  
j) Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities) and 
technical expertise. 
k) List of Testing and Support equipment’s  
l) ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  

--- PAGE 3 ---

Page 3 of 3 
 
m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any)  
n) Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant financial 
and commercial risks.  
o) Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and service 
network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.  
p) PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material, 
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc (if applicable).  
q) Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent Directors, 
non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any corrupt practices, 
unfair means and illegal activities.  
r) Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by the industry 
seeking ToTs.