--- PAGE 1 ---

Page 1 of 10  
120mm Laser Guided ATGM for Tank Guns 
EoI is invited for Assembly, Integration and Testing of “120mm Laser Guided ATGM for
Tank Guns” from a reputed Indian Public limited/Private limited Companies registered as
Indian Firms, hereafter referred as Lead System Integrator (LSI)/ applicant industry/ 
applicant firm. The applicant industry should have experience of multi-disciplinary 
system-based engineering products relevant to defense/aerospace, their integration and 
testing. 
Requirement of Industrial license from Department for Promotion of Industry and 
Internal Trade (DPIIT) to integrate/manufacture ATGM & license from Petroleum and 
Explosives Safety Organization (PESO) for handling and storage of Military/Ammunition 
class of explosives based on DB propellant, igniters, RDX/ TNT etc is mandatory. 
 
The applicant industry should have an established track record in engineering 
(including software) and manufacturing for real value addition.  The Applicant Company 
shall be engineering and/or a process technology company having commercially supplied 
engineering and/ or process technology products to the Indian Armed Forces and/or 
DRDO. The Applicant Company should have demonstrated capability of integration of 
system of systems in its application.  
 
It is important that the applicant industry should have in house manufacturing capability 
of a cognizable percentage of components of ATGM. The technical assessment of the 
applicant industry would be carried out by a committee appointed by DRDO. 
 
The applicant industry should furnish the list of manufacturing machinery and facilities 
along with plant layout available with them. The details of inspection/ test equipment are 
covered in detail in the QAPs of respective components, sub-assemblies & assemblies 
of ATGM. The manufacturers of these should possess the related inspection/ test 
equipment Assembly line along with requisite integration tools, fixtures and inspection 
set up. The work load at various work centres and spare capacity available should be 
proven/ indicated by the applicant firm. 
 
1. Essential infrastructure facility and test set up: 
The following facilities and test setups are essential for inspection and testing of ATGM. 
The applicant industry itself must possess these in-house.  
 
a) Infrastructure facility: 
i. Modern workshop equipped with CNC machining centres, lathe machines. 
ii. Integration building with anti-static flooring, having minimum spare size 30 m x 
20 m confirming to CIL standard with integration work stations/ tables. 
iii. Clean room facility (minimum 10000 class) of minimum size 12 m x 12 m. 
 
b) Test facility: 
i. Environmental Test Setup: 
1. Vibration table 
2. Thermal chambers (hot & cold) for temperature cycling and burn-in 
ii. Portable LASER Tracker based 3D CMM 
iii. Power supplies / Multimeter etc 
iv. Function generator 
v. Mechanical STD tools 
vi. Safety ohm meter 

--- PAGE 2 ---

Page 2 of 10  
vii. Crimping tools, sleeves or soldering rods (flux, lead rods) 
viii. Recorder for voltage measurements 
ix. Workshop facilities 
x. Integration jig, inspection and alignment jig, weight CG and inertia 
measurement facility 
xi. Oscilloscope 
xii. PCB design, assembly and manufacturing 
xiii. Soldering station 
xiv. FPGA & DSP programming tools 
xv. PC’s 
 
The applicant industry should furnish the list of inspection/ testing facilities available with 
them. Some of the facilities may be available with NABL accredited laboratories and 
their services can be utilised. The details of such laboratories, certified test facilities 
available with them and tests intended to be carried out at these laboratories should also 
be indicated. Dynamic flight trials of integrated ATGM will be carried out through DRDO 
as per policy. 
 
(c) ATGM storage: 
Storage magazines for filled propulsion system, filled warheads, filled igniters, 
propellant, warhead explosives and igniter composition are very important in the missile 
handling. The applicant industry should provide information regarding explosive handling 
and storage buildings/ magazines including quantum of explosive storage magazine to 
store integrated ATGMs. 
 
2. Explosive disposal: 
The Applicant industry should have facilities required for disposal of the explosive 
process waste and rejected filled warhead/ propulsion system etc. The applicant firm 
should provide information regarding disposal facilities available with them. 
 
3. Quality Assurance (QA) provisions: 
The Applicant industry should provide information regarding X-ray radiographer required 
for analyzing and sentencing radiography images of propellant and filled warhead. 
These radiographers should be at least BARC Level-II qualified. 
 
The inspections records in respect of all components, sub-systems and systems of 
ATGM are required to be systematically maintained at one place (in hard copy and soft 
copy form) in the formats prescribed in the QAPs. The details regarding plan of 
maintaining the inspection records should be provided by the applicant firm. 
 
The applicant firm should provide the QMS and Quality Procedures adopted by them. 
The same would be reviewed by the technical assessment committee. 
 
4. Monitoring of Assembly, integration and testing: 
Different committees would be constituted by DRDO for monitoring and managing the 
integration of ATGM and its components and sub-systems. The applicant firm would 
have its representation in these committees. The decisions of these committees would 
be required to be implemented by the firm. 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 3 ---

Page 3 of 10  
5. Certification and licenses required: 
The applicant firm who is interested in undertaking ToT should possess following 
certification/ licenses (these must be valid at the time of submitting the response): 
 
a) DPIIT license (Formerly known as DIPP license) for integration/ manufacturing 
of Defence store.  
b) Explosive handling license PESO (Military/Ammunition class of explosives 
based on RDX, TNT and their combinations with metal powders)  
c) Any other permissions and clearances necessary for explosive handling. 
d) ISO 9001(Quality Management System) 
The applicant firm himself must possess the following certifications. 
 
a) ISO 9001 (Quality Management System), ISO 14001 (environmental 
management system) and ISO 31000 (Risk management) 
b) AS9100D for Aerospace and Defence related items. 
 
6. Security aspects: 
The Applicant industry should ensure security of the documents, components, sub-
systems as well as integrated ATGM during storage and transportation. The security 
plan should be submitted by the firm. Security Manual for Defence Manufacturing 
Companies (industries requiring ILDC) as referred to in the should be complied with. 
 
7. Production capacity: 
The Applicant industry should possess adequate plant, machinery, equipment, storage, 
infrastructure etc. sufficient to deliver required numbers of ATGM per annum. The 
Applicant firm would submit a document clearly bringing out to prove their production 
capacity. The production capacity would be assessed by a committee constituted by 
DRDO.  
 
8. Space requirements: 
The layout plan of manufacturing, assembly integration and testing set up should be 
provided by the applicant firm. The space requirements are also important for other 
components, sub-systems and associated manufacturing, integration and testing 
activities. The integration buildings should have sufficient space for: 
 
a. Components/ sub-assemblies required for minimum 25 ATGM* (in loose 
condition) 
b. ATGM assembly fixture 
c. Sub-systems/ systems testing fixture 
d. Working space for ATGM integration and inspection 
e. Weighing machine 
f. CG and Inertia measurement set up 
 
9. Track Record: 
The Applicant firm should have proven track record for manufacture/ integration of military 
systems. The applicant firm should have experience in integrating at least 2 systems for 
DRDO/ MOD which include multidisciplinary areas such as mechanical, electro-
mechanical, electrical and electronics along with software. Information about same needs 
to be furnished 
 
10. Financial status: 

--- PAGE 4 ---

Page 4 of 10  
The relevant documents in support should be submitted by the applicant industry. 
 
a) Annual Turnover:   Minimum of Rs 80 Crores for each of last three financial 
years based on financial statements audited under the relevant Companies Act 
and adopted and approved by the board of directors/ share-holders. The above 
should be supported by relevant certificate(s). 
 
 
b) Capital Assets: Capital assets at gross book value as specified in the last 
consolidated financial statements audited under the relevant Companies Act and 
adopted and approved by the board of directors/share holders of Rs 50 Crores. 
The above should be supported by relevant certificate(s). 
 
c) Credit Rating: Applicant Company to have minimum credit rating (long 
term/issuer rating) equivalent to CRISIL/ICRA “A” (stable) as on the date of the
application. Credit ratings by India Ratings and Research Pvt Ltd (Formerly Fitch 
Ratings India Pvt Ltd), Credit Analysis and Research Ltd (CARE), Brickwork India 
Ratings Pvt Ltd, SMERA Ratings Ltd and Infomerics Valuation and Ratings Pvt 
Ltd may also be considered by the Technical Evaluation Committee. The above 
should be supported by relevant certificate(s). 
 
d) Audit Qualifications 
The latest audit reports of the Applicant industry should not have any 
qualifications. The above should be supported by a certificate of the statutory 
auditors along with the last three audit reports of the firm. 
11. Production plan: At the time technology Absorption. 
 
12. Manpower: 
The applicant firm should possess adequate number of trained and qualified manpower 
for undertaking various activities related to production of ATGM i.e. manufacture, 
assembly, integration, testing, QA/QC, communication, records, logistics, procurement, 
supervision, management etc. The details regarding this should be submitted by the 
firm. The present work load at various work centres and spare capacity available should 
be proven/ indicated by the firm. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 5 ---

Page 5 of 10  
1. Industries are requested to submit their expression of Interest for ToT within 21 
days of publishing of technology on DRDO web-page. Interested companies/ 
industries are requested to apply against this EoI to following address:- 
 
To 
 
Director, Armament Research & Development Establishment (ARDE) 
Dr Homi Bhabha Road, Armament Post, Pashan,  
Pune-411 021 
Tele : 020- 25865182 
Fax : 020- 25865102 
Email : director.arde@gov.in 
 
2). A copy of interest may be sent to following address without any attachment; 
To 
Dte of Industry Interface & Quality Management (DIIQM) 
Room No 477, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, 
New Delhi -110 011 
Tele : 2300 7441    
Fax : 2379 3008 
Email: diitm.hqr@gov.in 
 
All industries interested in seeking ToT are requested to apply in the format given below. 
Kindly fill in the fields. The list of documents to be attached is provided in Annexure – I. Kindly 
provide the reference of page no. of supporting document in the relevant field of form. 
PART-1  
General Information 
(Please enclose documents in support of information provided) 
1.  Name of the Technology requested for 
Technology Transfer (Technology name and 
concerned Lab, Category) 
 
2.  Name of the industry/ organization  
3.  Complete Address and other details  
Registered Office 
State 
Phone No 
Fax 
Email 
Website 
 
Factory 
State 
Phone No 
Fax 
Email 
Website 
 
4.  Point of Contact  

--- PAGE 6 ---

Page 6 of 10  
Name 
Designation 
Address 
Mobile No 
Ph No 
Email ID 
5.  NAME OF CMD/ MD /PARTNERS/ 
PROPRIETOR/ etc 
Name 
Designation 
Address 
Mobile No 
Ph No 
Email ID 
 
6.  Date of Incorporation of company  
7.  Foreign Direct Investment in company (if 
any in %) 
 
8.  Shareholding pattern  
9.  Turn over as per Audited Balance Sheet for 
the preceding three years. 
Year ____ 
Year ____ 
Year ____ 
 
10. Annual budget for R&D during last three 
years (if any) 
Year ____ 
Year ____ 
Year ____ 
 
11. Income Tax returns for the preceding three 
years period 
Year ____ 
Year ____ 
Year ____ 
 
12. Nature of company 
DPSU, Private Limited, Public Limited, 
Partnership, Proprietary, Ex- Serviceman Unit 
 
13. Category of industry 
Large Scale, Medium Scale, Small Scale, 
Micro, Startup 
 
14. MSME Registration No  
15. Certificates of registration as a 
manufacturing unit, if any. 
 
16. If Startup, DPIIT Registration No  
17. UDYOG AADHAR No  
18. PAN Number  
19. Details of Industrial license for defence 
manufacturing issued by DPIIT (if any) 
 
20. Details of PESO license (if any)  
21. GST Number  
22. Nature of business 
Manufacturing/ Sole Selling or Authorized 
 

--- PAGE 7 ---

Page 7 of 10  
Agent/ Assembler/ Traders/ Dealer/ Processor/ 
Repacker/ Others 
23. Details of current products and services 
Products and services Supplied (please specify 
Govt/ Domestic market/ Export) 
 
24. Record of past performance 
(e.g., Supply orders executed against of 
Ministry of Defence orders, Public Sectors and 
Paramilitary Forces, if any). 
 
25. Details of registration with 
NSIC / SSI, DGS&D, other Defence 
Department, other Govt. Dept, membership of 
FICCI/ASSOCHAM/CII or other Industrial  
Association  
(Attach relevant copies of registration 
letters) 
 
26. Have you already taken any technology from 
DRDO (If yes, give details attaching separate 
sheet) 
 
Name of the Technology, Lab, Year, License 
number & Status  
 
27. ISO/ ISI certification or any other 
certification (If yes, give details) 
 
28. Relevant clearances form the authorities/ 
ministries (if any) 
 
29. Capacity and capability to undertake 
developmental work and to accept attendant 
financial and commercial risks. 
 
30. Capacity/capability to market the product 
through the marketing network, sales and 
service network, reliability to maintain 
confidentiality. 
 
 
PART-2 
Infrastructure and other Information 
1.  Total area of factory 
Covered (m2), 
Uncovered (m2), 
Bonded space available (m2) 
 
2.  Ownership of factory 
Self-owned, partnership, rental 
 
3.  Electric power 
Sanctioned 
Installed 
Standby (if any) 
 
4.  Availability of adequate infrastructure 
(List of machines and their production capacities) and 
technical expertise 
 

--- PAGE 8 ---

Page 8 of 10  
5.  Name of bank & A/c No Name of bank 
A/c type 
A/c no 
Address of the bank 
Phone: 
Email: 
 
 
6. Details of current products: 
S.No Type Description Licensed/installed 
capacity 
Annual production for preceding 
3 years 
     
      
7. Details of foreign collaboration, if any 
S.No Product Name and address of collaborator Year Remarks 
     
     
 
8. Details of products developed for services 
S.No Nomenclature of stores Order No. and date Remarks 
    
    
 
9. P lease give details of important facilities & infrastructure as per 
following format for: 
(a) Production 
(b) Unconventional, special m/c 
(c) Testing & quality control facilities  
S.No Description of 
m/c 
Make & model Qty Date of 
purchase 
Remarks 
      
      
 
10. Furnish the following details with relevant certificates and documents 
(a) R&D facilities available       : 
(b) Inspection quality control of raw material components  : 
(c) A ssistance from central agency for testing / calibration etc. : 
(d) laboratory and drawing office facility     : 
11. Principal c ustomers: 
S. No Name & address S.O No and 
date 
Date of last 
supply 
Products 
supplied 
Value 
      
      
 
12. F uture plans (if any) in respect of expansion programme/ installation 
of additional machines/ test facilities etc. 
13. Name  of the technolo gy requested for transfer 
(give self-assessm ent of your capability to absorb the technology) 
 

--- PAGE 9 ---

Page 9 of 10  
14. Details  of employee as on date on firm’s pay roll 
PERMANENT 
Category Post Held Number Qualificatio
n 
Total Service 
Technical Prod. Manager 
Q.C. Manager 
Supervisor 
Testing Staff (QC) 
Skilled workers 
Unskilled workers, etc 
   
Administrative Purchase Manager 
Accounts Officer 
Office Superintendent 
Clerical 
Others, etc 
   
 
TEMPORARY 
Category Post Held Number Qualificatio
n 
Total Service 
Technical Prod. Manager 
Q.C. Manager 
Supervisor 
Testing Staff (QC) 
Skilled workers 
Unskilled workers, etc 
   
Administrative Purchase Manager 
Accounts Officer 
Office Superintendent 
Clerical 
Others, etc 
   
 
DECL ARATI ON: 
I / we confirm that the information furnished in Part 1 & 2 above is correct. In the 
event of any information given by m e / us is found incorrect / false at any time, I / w e 
understand our E oI for T oT w ill be cancelled/ rejected without notice, beside any other 
appropriate action against me / us. 
 
Industry seal           Authorized signatory 
Name(s) in capital 
Designation and seal of authorized signatory 
 
Date:  
Place: 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 10 ---

Page 10 of 10  
 
Annexure – I 
List of Support documents to be attached with EoI 
(a)  Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian 
Companies Act, as amended time to time) 
 (b)  Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 
 (c)  Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  
(d)  Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  
(e)  Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/ shareholders, 
foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of 
India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as 
applicable.  
(f)  Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  
(g)  Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 
 (h)  Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 
 (i)  Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of 
Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  
(j)  Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities) 
and technical expertise.  
(k)  List of Testing and Support equipment’s 
 (l)  ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  
(m)  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 
(n)  Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant 
financial and commercial risks.  
(o)  Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and 
service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 
(p)  PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material, 
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  
(q)  Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent 
Directors, non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any 
corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities. 
(r)  Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by the industry 
seeking ToTs. 
(s)  Application cum Industry Assessment Form