--- PAGE 1 ---

Compact Transhorizon Communication System (CTCS)
The  Compact  Transhorizon  Communication  System
(CTCS)  is  a  large  hop  terrestrial  backhaul
communication  system  developed  by  Defence
Electronics Applications Laboratory (DEAL), Dehradun
for ensuring high data rate connectivity to user station
and remote locations. This system can be used in the
remote locations where civil communication grid is not
present. It is very useful for rapid establishment of lo w
latency  high  data  rate  wireless  communication
backbone in beyond line of control. CTCS is useful for
establishing transhorizon connectivity between tactical
locations.  CTCS  system  consists  of  3  major
subsystems,  i.e.   CTCS  Radio  Unit,  CTCS  Antenna
assembly and alignment & pointing mechanism with light  weight tripod. It can support
ranges up to 60 kms path lengths in Troposcatter mode a nd 100 km path length in Line
of sight (LoS) mode. CTCS link prediction software wi th integrated GIS data is included
in the system for link planning and link feasibility in offline mode.
1. Interested  companies/industries  are  requested  to  apply  against  this  EoI  to
following address:-
To,
The Director
Defence Electronics Applications Laboratory (DEAL)
Raipur Road, Dehradun – 248001
Phone No: 01352787224
Fax: 01352787265
Email ID: director.deal@gov.in
2.  A copy of interest may be sent to the following addr ess without any attachment:-
Copy to:- 
The Director 
Directorate Industry Interface and Technology Management (DIITM) 
Room No 447, DRDO Bhawan, DRDO HQrs, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi – 110011
Phone No: 01123013209/23015291
Fax No: 011-23793008
Email ID: diitm.hqr@gov.in


--- PAGE 2 ---

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI
(a) Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be i ncorporated as per Indian
Companies Act, as amended time to time)
 (b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing uni t, if any.
 (c) Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three ye ars. 
(d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three year per iod 
(e) Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especiall y  foreign  partners/
shareholders, foreign employees, directors, etc. The compa ny must adhere to
the prevailing Govt of India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment
(FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable. 
(f) Annual budget for R&D during last three years. 
(g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.
 (h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.
 (i) Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of
Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any). 
(j) Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  m achines  and  their  production
capacities) and technical expertise. 
(k) List of Testing and Support equipment’s
 (l) ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification 
(m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any)
(n) Capacity  and  capability  to  undertake  developmental  work  and  to  accept
attendant financial and commercial risks. 
(o) Capacity/capability to market the product through th e marketing network, sales
and service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.
(p) PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT  is for high energy Material,
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc. 
(q) Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of  its Directors, Independent
Directors, non-executive Directors, Key management person nel are involved in
any corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities.
(r) Details of the industrials license for defence manu facturing be provided by the industry
seeking ToTs.