--- PAGE 1 ---

TOT of “Microwave absorbing Spinel Ferrite powder (MWA-NSF)”
Ferrites constitute an important group of magnetic materials with a wide
range of applications due to their tuneable magnetic and dielectric properties
based on their composition and structures. The different classes of ferrites show
different  types  of  magnetic  properties  and  as  a  consequence  they  interact
differently with different frequencies of EM spectrum. The properties of ferrites
can be tailored to show very low to very high absorption of high frequency
electromagnetic  radiations.  The  ferrites  which  absorb  energy  from
electromagnetic waves are widely used in reduction of Radar Cross Section of
any target.  
In  general,  ferrites  show  resonance  over  a  very  narrow  band  of
frequencies. Thus in order to achieve high values of MW absorption over broad
frequency range, there is a need to develop a range of ferrites covering broad
range of MW frequencies. Spinel ferrite shows high magnetic losses at low
microwave frequencies. The resonance absorption frequencies of the ferrites
can be tailored by variation of composition of ferrites as well as by varying the
size and shape of particles.
Defence Laboratory, Jodhpur has developed microwave absorbing spinel
ferrite powder for the development of various stealth products in the form of
elastomeric sheets, structures and coatings for low frequency absorption  1-
8GHz. Technology for bulk production of the ferrite powder established through
wet chemical process in 10kg batch scale.  The ferrite powder is currently being
used for the fabrication of Microwave  Absorbing  rubber gasket (MWAR)  of
special shape and size for airborne application.  The developed MWAR gasket
has been qualified for its production for land and air version of military target.
The requirement projected for 500 missiles in next three years. 
Keeping in view of above requirements, it is proposed to explore the
possibilities of transfer of ferrite powder technology to Indian industries for
bulk production.
Preparation:
DLJ developed spinel ferrite can be prepared by following process: 
1. Chemical reaction for gel to carbonate precipitation in water medium
2. Separation of precipitate & washing of chloride ions
3. Drying and crushing of powder
4. Crushing and sieving of powder
5. Three stage heat treatment processes at high temperature in furnace