--- PAGE 1 ---

LIGHT WEIGHT INTEGRATED AIRCREW HELMET 
(Su-30 HELMET)
The use of specific Protective Equipment and Flying Clothing by a
Fighter Pilot is mission oriented and the importance of providing light
weight  solutions  to  enhance  long  endurance  missions  is  widely
acknowledged.  Light  Weight  Integrated  Helmet  is  one  of  the  flying
clothing products which are undertaken under ALSP Program (DEB-116) to
meet specific requirements of the User’s operating Fighter Aircrafts and
Helicopters. Helmet as a head gear is essentially a life saving device and
hence the item has to be retained around wearer’s head when subjected
to the  effects  of air  friction  during  the  process  of  ejection.  Thus,  the
retention of the Helmet-Mask is of paramount importance to ensure the
safety and survival of the Pilot.
DEBEL  has  designed  and  developed  state  of  art  light  weight
integrated  internally  retractable  Polycarbonate  Visor  based  Aircrew
Helmet  equipped  with  Helmet  mounted  Sight  and  Display  mount,
Preamplifier for Su30, MiG series and  has met various MiL standards
including the wind blast test at 600 KEAS by simulating crash scenario in 6
different profiles. The date obtained in the wind blast test was analysed
for Neck load limits by Institute of Aerospace medicine  Specialist and
found to be well within the limits. 
Salient Features
a. Impact  Attenuation  and  Penetration  Resistance  (As  per  MIL-DTL-
87174A) achieved by using   hybrid aramid fabrics and Epoxy Resin.
b. Optical and Ballistic Grade PC Visors for protection of eyes and face
from Wind Blast, sun Glare, UV light, Bird Hit, etc.   (As per MIL-DTL-
43511D& MIL-V-29591/1 (AS) respectively)
c. Noise attenuation covering low (125 Hz) to high frequency (8KHz)
[As per MIL-DTL-83425A].
d. Equipped with Preamplifier (EMI/EMC complied) to enhance signal
output of Microphone 
e. Effective mechanisms to Anchor Pressure Breathing Oxygen Mask
with flexibility in adjustments as per individual’s requirement.
f. Provision to Mount HMSD on the outer surface of the shell to provide
situational awareness to the pilot
g. Ventilation holes to prevent heat stress and allow air circulation.
h. Microencapsulated Phase Change Materials (MPCM) adjustment pads
provided  in  different  thickness  for  effective  fitment  and  thermal
management.
i. Visor movements/ Selection of visor for day and night sorties
                 
                          
 Su-30 Helmet