--- PAGE 1 ---

COMMON AIRCREW HELMET
The use of specific Protective Equipment and Flying Clothing by a
Fighter Pilot is mission oriented and the importance of providing light
weight  solutions  to  enhance  long  endurance  missions  is  widely
acknowledged. Integrated Common Helmet is one of the flying clothing
products which was undertaken under Common Helmet-Common mask to
meet specific requirements of the Users’ operating Fighter Aircrafts and
Helicopters. Helmet as a head gear is essentially a life saving device and
hence the item has to be retained around wearer’s head when subjected
to the  effects  of air  friction  during  the  process  of  ejection.  Thus,  the
retention of the Helmet-Mask is of paramount importance to ensure the
safety and survival of the Pilot.
DEBEL  has  designed  and  developed  state  of  art  integrated
Externally retractable Polycarbonate Visor based Aircrew Helmet for MiG
21, HAWK, Kiran-Jaguar Aircraft and Helicopter Series (Cheeta, Cheetal,
Chetak,  ALH  and  Mi-17  Series)  and   has  met  various  MiL  and  Def.
standards including the wind blast test cleared by RCMA(A/C) for 540
KEAS. The item has undergone extensive User trials, accepted by Users
for  introduction  into  Service  and  airworthiness  certificate  has  been
accorded by RCMA (A/C) and RCMA (Hptrs).  
Salient Features
a. Designed for inter convertibility between the Euro and MiG series
b. Impact Attenuation and Penetration Resistance  Complies Def Stan
05-102  by using high performance fabrics and Epoxy Resin.
c. Withstood wind blast Test at 540 KEAS as per MIL-V-29591/1 (AS)
d. Optical and Ballistic Grade PC Visors for protection of eyes and face
from Wind Blast, sun Glare, UV light, Bird Hit, etc.   
e. Noise attenuation covering low  to high frequency 
f. Effective mechanisms to Anchor Pressure Breathing Oxygen Mask
with flexibility in adjustments as per individual’s requirement.
g. Provision to Mount NVG on the outer surface of the shell to provide
situational awareness to the pilot ( for Helicopters)

--- PAGE 2 ---

h. Visor movements/ Selection of visor for day and night sorties
i. Helmet available in 5 sizes
j. Helicopter  Helmets   have  Boom  Microphone  with a change over
switch for swapping between Mask Mic and Boom Mic
k. Successfully passed the Ejection seat test
Fig 1: Common Aircrew Helmet for Aircrafts and Helicopters