--- PAGE 1 ---

Angular-OBC
Technology Overview
1. Angular OBC unit is the primary processing unit of Vehicle which controls all the
necessary sub-systems and operations of the vehicle.
2. Hardware design of Angular OBC is based ASIC processor. The Angular OBC
design consists of Analog I/Os, Discrete I/Os and Communications interfaces.
3. Angular OBC is designed and developed by RCI, DRDO and IP rights are with
RCI DRDO.
4. ToT absorption certificate will be issued after successful realization of 1 unit and
its  QT  completion.  ToT  absorption  certificate  is  mandatory  for  execution  of
Supply orders.
5. EOI is requested from competent firms for Fabrication, Assembly and Testing
(Built-to-Print) of Angular OBC as part of TOT.
6. The ToT terms and conditions are detailed below.
Terms and Conditions
1. Processing of EoI applications shall start after 21 days from the date of publication
on DRDO website. 
2. The firm’s turnover should be greater than  Rs 63  Cr per annum  for preceding
consecutive three year period.
3. Documents to be submitted with EoI. The firm must provide details about firm and
documents in support of their claim as per Appendix- A. Any additional documents
as  required  by  DRDO  shall  be  sought  based  on  request  received  from  the
interested industries.
4. a)  As  an  essential  criterion,  the  firm  should  have  demonstrated  capability  of
development/ fabrication & assembly of Avionics Systems (similar to On-Board
Computers (OBC), Integrated Avionics Unit (IAU) and Interface Unit (IU) qualified
and delivered to Ministry of Defence/Defence Establishments / Public Sectors /
Paramilitary Forces / any Government Agencies. In addition, prior experience in
development/ fabrication of avionics systems with expertise in integration and
handling should be possessed by the firm (SO copies for the delivery of similar
systems should be provided with EoI).
Page 1 of 17

--- PAGE 2 ---

b) Expertise in Avionics grade hardware development, testing and debugging
based on Processors, FPGA, SoC with the following features is essential-
(i)  High  speed  boards  with  processors  (frequency  of  operation:
100MHz, 200MHz, up to 1GHz )
(ii) Communication interface like Ethernet, MIL-STD-1553B, RS422
(iii) Memory interface SRAM, FLASH etc.
(iv) MIL grade/ IPC class-3 PCBs
(v) FPGA and CPLDs (Xilinx, Altera etc.)
For the above, Relevant Supply Order (SO) copies with technical specifications/
Scope of work & Inspection / Acceptance Report (IR) copies (A minimum of 5 SO
copies and associated IRs) of different types of subsystems and demonstration of
such hardware. Systems/Sub-systems delivered on or after 01 January 2018 will
only be considered.
5. Previous  &  on-going  experience  of  delivery  of  similar  above  systems  with
clearance by Defence QA  agencies like DGQA, MSQAA/R&QA, RCI, CQA etc. is
essential. Relevant proof to be furnished.
6. It is essential that the participating firms shall have ISO 9001:2015 and AS 9100D
certification. Relevant proof to be furnished.
7. The  participating  firms  shall  have  in-house  facilities  for  components  /  PCBs
storage in controlled environments and facilities for environmental tests (Climatic
and Dynamic test facilities). 
   a) Mandatory In-house Facilities
(i) Humidity Controlled Storage facility
(ii) 40X Optical inspection system
(iii) ESD Safe Manual Soldering and rework facility
(iv) Controlled conformal coating facility
(v) PCB cleaning facility
(vi) ESD safe assembling and integration facility 
(vii) Test  equipment  such  as  multi-meters,  oscilloscopes,  isolation
testers with valid calibration certificate
(viii) ESD safe Test bench for functional testing
Page 2 of 17

--- PAGE 3 ---

      b) In addition to mandatory in-house facilities, industries having the following
facilities shall be preferred in the following order over industries not having these
facilities:
(i) SMT line for complete automated reflow certified by any QA agencies
of DRDO
(ii) Climatic and Dynamic test facility with valid calibration certificates
(iii) Inspection  systems:  3D  X-Ray,  Automated  Optical  Inspection
equipment
(iv) Pneumatic controlled conformal coating facility
(v) Automated Aqueous cleaning facility for PCBs
Relevant proof to be furnished for above.
8. The Industry shall have experienced & skilled manpower for debugging, testing
and  documentation  of  embedded  systems,  established  quality  management
system, willingness and capability to setup specialized infrastructure.
a) Minimum Manpower requirement for Hardware development and testing
(i) Two Electronic Engineers B.E / B.Tech / M.Tech with minimum domain
expertise of 3yrs for testing and debugging
(ii) Two IPC certified Electronics/ Electrical Diploma / ITI persons
(iii) One IPC certified QC Electronics Engineer B.E / B.Tech with minimum
domain expertise of 3yrs 
(iv) One  QC  Mechanical  Engineer  B.E  /  B.Tech  with  minimum  domain
expertise of 3yrs
(v) One Mechanical Diploma / ITI fitter for integration activity 
b) Expertise  in  Documentation:  Preparation  and  maintaining  records  of  each
stage involved in the realization of the Systems with QC approval such as line
card / log books.
Relevant proof to be furnished for above.
9. The evaluation criteria given in Appendix-B - “Evaluation criterion for review by
TAC” with supporting documents has to filled and submitted along with the EoI
without which the EoI will not be considered.
Page 3 of 17

--- PAGE 4 ---

10.The other terms and conditions are as per the ‘DRDO Policy for ToT’ and
‘DRDO Procedures for ToT’ for Category ‘A’ posted on DRDO website.
Contact Details 
1. The desirous industries should send their Expression of Interest (EoI) to Director,
RCI  on the following address:- 
Director,
Research Centre Imarat (RCI)
Vignyana Kancha
Hyderabad- 500 069
Fax:040-24306002
E-Mail: director[dot]rci[at]gov[dot]in
Copy to (without attachments):- 
Director, 
Directorate of Industry Interface and Technology Management (DIITM), 
Room No. 447, DRDO Headquarters, 
DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg,
New Delhi- 110011. 
Fax: 011-23793008.E-Mail: diitm[dot]hqr[at]gov[dot]in
Page 4 of 17

--- PAGE 5 ---

Appendix-A
List of support documents to be attached with EOI
i. Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per
Indian Companies Act, as amended time to time) 
ii. Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 
iii. Audited Balance Sheet, turnover and net worth of the company for the
preceding three years. 
iv. Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period 
v. Details of shareholding /ownership pattern especially foreign partners /
shareholders,  foreign  employees,  directors,  etc.  The  company  must
adhere to the prevailing Govt. of India policies and regulations on Foreign
Direct Investment (FDI) / DIPP norms as applicable. 
vi. Annual budget (if any) for R&D during last three years.
vii. Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 
viii. Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel and internal
Quality Control team. 
ix. Record  of  past  performance  (e.g.,  Supply  orders  executed  against  of
Ministry of Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).
x. Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  machines  and  their
production capacities) and technical expertise to fabricate, assemble and
test the units. 
xi. List of Testing and Support equipment
xii. ISO & AS9100D certification or any other certification (if any).
xiii. Relevant clearances from the authorities / ministries (if any). 
xiv. Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept
attendant financial and commercial risks.
xv. Capacity / capability to market the product through the marketing network,
sales and service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 
xvi. PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy
Material, explosives, propellants and component/system dealing with it etc.
xvii. Undertaking  from  company  seeking  ToT  that  none  of  its  Directors,
Independent  Directors,  non-executive  Directors,  and  Key  management
personnel are involved in any corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal
activities. 
xviii. Details of the industrial license for defence manufacturing issued by DPIIT
to be provided by the industry seeking ToTs. 
Page 5 of 17

--- PAGE 6 ---

xix. Application cum Industry Assessment Form
Application cum Industry Assessment Form
All industries are requested to fill in the form given below and provide supporting
documents (as applicable). Kindly provide the reference of page no. of supporting
document in the relevant field of form. The list of documents to be attached is
provided in Annexure – I. 
P      A      R      T      -      1       
General Information
(Please enclose documents in support of information provided)
S.No Information Detail Attachment
reference
1. Name of the Technology requested for 
Technology Transfer (Technology 
name and concerned Lab, Category)
2. Name of the industry/ organization
3. Complete Address and other details
Registered Office
State
Phone No
Fax
Email
Website
Factory
State
Phone No
Fax
Email
Website
4. Point of Contact
Name
Designation
Address
Mobile No
Ph No
Email ID
5. NAME OF CMD/ MD /PARTNERS/ 
PROPRIETOR/ etc
Name
Designation
Address
Mobile No
Page 6 of 17

--- PAGE 7 ---

Ph No
Email ID
6. Date of Incorporation of company
7. Foreign Direct Investment in company 
(if any in %)
8. Shareholding pattern
9. Turn over as per Audited Balance Sheet
for the preceding three years.
Year ____
Year ____
Year ____
10. Annual budget for R&D during last 
three years (if any)
Year ____
Year ____
Year ____
11. Income Tax returns for the preceding 
three years period
Year ____
Year ____
Year ____
12. Nature of company
DPSU, Private Limited, Public Limited, 
Partnership, Proprietary, Ex- Serviceman 
Unit
13. Category of industry
Large Scale, Medium Scale, Small Scale, 
Micro, Startup
14. MSME Registration No
15. Certificates of registration as a 
manufacturing unit, if any.
16. If Startup, DPIIT Registration No
17. UDYOG AADHAR No
18. PAN Number
19. Details of Industrial license for defence 
manufacturing issued by DPIIT (if any)
20. GST Number
21. Nature of business
Manufacturing/ Sole Selling or Authorized 
Agent/ Assembler/ Traders/ Dealer/ 
Processor/ Repacker/ Others
22. Details of current products and 
services
Products and services Supplied (please 
specify Govt/ Domestic market/ Export)
23. Record of past performance
(e.g., Supply orders executed against of 
Ministry of Defence orders, Public Sectors 
Page 7 of 17

--- PAGE 8 ---

and Paramilitary Forces, if any).
24. Details of registration with
NSIC / SSI, DGS&D, other Defence 
Department, other Govt. Dept, 
membership of FICCI/ASSOCHAM/CII or 
other Industrial Association
(Attach relevant copies of registration 
letters)
25. Have you already taken any technology
from DRDO (If yes, give details attaching 
separate sheet)
Name of the Technology, Lab, Year, 
License number & Status
26. ISO/ ISI certification or any other 
certification (If yes, give details)
27. Relevant clearances form the 
authorities/ ministries (if any)
28. Capacity and capability to undertake 
developmental work and to accept 
attendant financial and commercial 
risks.
29. Capacity/capability to market the 
product through the marketing 
network, sales and service network, 
reliability to maintain confidentiality.
P      A      R      T      -      2  
Infrastructure and other Information
1. Total area of factory
Covered (m2),
Uncovered (m2),
Bonded space available (m2)
2. Ownership of factory
Self-owned, partnership, rental
3. Electric power
Sanctioned
Installed
Standby (if any)
4. Availability of adequate infrastructure
(List of machines and their production capacities) and 
technical expertise
5. Name of bank & A/c No Name of bank
A/c type
A/c no
Address of the bank
Phone:
Email:
Page 8 of 17

--- PAGE 9 ---

6. Details of current products:
S.No Type Description Licensed/installed 
capacity
Annual production for 
preceding 3 years
7. Details of foreign collaboration, if any
S.No Product Name and address of collaborator Year Remarks
8. Details of products developed for services
S.No Nomenclature of stores Order No. and date Remarks
9. Please give details of important facilities & infrastructure as 
per following format for:
(a) Production
(b) Unconventional, special m/c
(c) Testing & quality control facilities 
S.No Description of
m/c
Make & model Qty Date of
purchase
Remarks
10. Furnish  the following details with relevant certificates and
documents
(a) R&D facilities available :
(b) Inspection quality control of raw material components :
(c) Assistance from central agency for testing / calibration etc. :
(d) laboratory and drawing office facility :
11. Principal  customers:
S. No Name & address S.O No and 
date
Date of last 
supply
Products 
supplied
Value
12. Future plans (if any) in respect of expansion programme/ 
installation of additional machines/ test facilities etc.
13. Name of the technology requested for transfer
(give self-assessment of your capability to absorb the technology)
Page 9 of 17

--- PAGE 10 ---

14. Details of employee as on date on firm’s pay roll
PERMANENT
Category Post Held Number Qualification Total Service
Technical Prod. Manager
Q.C. Manager 
Supervisor
Testing Staff (QC)
Skilled workers
Unskilled workers, etc
Administrative Purchase Manager
Accounts Officer
Office Superintendent
Clerical
Others, etc
TEMPORARY
Category Post Held Number Qualification Total 
Service
Technical Prod. Manager
Q.C. Manager 
Supervisor
Testing Staff (QC)
Skilled workers
Unskilled workers, etc
Administrativ
e
Purchase Manager
Accounts Officer
Office Superintendent
Clerical
Others, etc
D      E      C      L      A      R      A      T      I      O      N       :
I / we confirm that the information furnished in Part 1 & 2 above is 
correct. In the event of any information given by me / us is found incorrect / 
false at any time, I / we understand our EoI for ToT will be cancelled/ rejected
without notice, beside any other appropriate action against me / us.
Industry seal Authorized signatory
Name(s) in capital
Designation and seal of authorized 
signatory
date: 
Place:
Page 10 of 17

--- PAGE 11 ---

Appendix-B  
Evaluation criterion for review by TAC
I. The following checklist has to be filled and submitted along with the EOI 
II. For the purpose of evaluation, the participating firm shall mean, the company/group of companies of Indian origin.
III. For the purpose of evaluation, Systems/Sub-systems delivered on or after 01 January 2018 will only be considered.
IV. The participating firm, if involves sub-contractors for Test facilities, they shall provide the full information (name, Address, 
Turn-over, Product/Service subcontracted, certifications, SO copy etc.) of sub-contractors during the submission of EOI.
Sl.no
.
Parameter Supporting Documents
1. Expertise  in  Avionics  grade
hardware development, testing and
debugging  based  on
Processors/FPGA/SoC  with  the
following features
Corresponding Details to be filled
Relevant Supply Order (SO) copies with
technical specifications/ Scope of work to
be submitted
No. of Purchase Orders executed and delivered for each of the following 
systems
High speed boards with Processor/SoC 
operating frequency greater than 
200MHz
Communication  Interface  :  Ethernet,
MIL-STD-1553B, RS422 etc
Page 11 of 17

--- PAGE 12 ---

SRAM, FLASH Memory etc
MIL grade/ IPC class-3 PCBs
FPGA and CPLDs (Xilinx, Altera etc.)
SDR Memory
ADCs and DACs
2. Manufacturing  Experience:
Experience  in  manufacturing
defense systems of similar type, No.
of POs executed for similar type of
product in last 5 years
Corresponding Details to be filled
Supply Order (SO) copies and associated
delivery challan within last 5 years to be
submitted
No. of POs in last 5 years
Specify Customer Names:
No POs on similar type of Product
3. Green  cards  from  Defense  QA/QC
agencies  for  five  different  Sub-
systems
Corresponding Details to be filled  Defense QA/QC agencies issued Green
Cards/ QC Inspection Reports/ Boarding
Pass of five different sub-systems to be
submittedNo. of Green cards
4. ISO  9001:2015   and  AS  9100D
certification
Corresponding Details to be filled
Valid certificate to be submitted
Certificate Nos.
5. Existing  Test  facilities  (In-house
Manufacturing  capability
(Mandatory facilities)
Corresponding Details to be filled
 Test Facility Specifications, Photos and
calibration certificates
Page 12 of 17

--- PAGE 13 ---

a) Humidity  Controlled  Storage
facility
b) 40XOptical inspection system
c) ESD  Safe  Manual  Soldering
and rework facility
d) controlled  conformal  coating
facility
e) PCB cleaning facility
f) ESD  safe  cable  assembling
(harness) and integration facility
g) Test equipment such as multi-
meters,  oscilloscopes,  isolation
testers  with  valid  calibration
certificate
6. Existing  Test  facilities  (In-house/
sub-Contractor)
Corresponding Details to be filled  Test Facility Specifications, Photos 
and calibration certificates to be 
submitted if in-house.
 The participating firm, if involves sub-
contractors for Test facilities, they shall
provide the full information (name, 
Address, Turn-over, Product/Service 
subcontracted, certifications, SO copy 
etc.) of sub-contractors during the 
submission of EOI.
a) SMT  line  for  complete
automated  reflow  certified  by
any QA agencies of DRDO
b) Climatic  and  Dynamic  test
facility  with  valid  calibration
certificates
c) Inspection systems: 3D X-Ray
d) Inspection systems: Automated
Optical Inspection equipment
e) Pneumatic controlled conformal
coating facility
f) Automated  Aqueous  cleaning
facility for PCBs
g) Machining  and  Fabrication  of
Page 13 of 17

--- PAGE 14 ---

Mechanical Chassis
7. In-house  capability  of  testing,
debugging  and  documentation  of
similar embedded systems
Corresponding Details to be filled
Two  Electronic  Engineers
B.E/BTech.  /MTech.  with  minimum
domain  expertise  of  3yrs  for  testing,
debugging and documentation
Certificate by Firm to be submitted citing
the  experience  details  duly  signed  by
authorized signatory of the firm
Automated Test Equipment for Cable
Harnessing
ATE  Specifications,  Photos  to  be
submitted
Automated Test Equipment for PCBA
and Final Integrated Unit
8. Existing Man power strength Corresponding Details to be filled Valid  IPC  certificates  to  be  submitted.
Certificate by Firm to be submitted citing
the  experience  details  duly  signed  by
authorized signatory of the firm
a) Internal Firm QC
IPC certified QC with minimum 3years
experience in relevant field
Mechanical QC with B.E/BTech. With
minimum 3yrs  experience in relevant
field
b)For PCBA and Cable Harnessing
IPC  trainer  for  soldering
process(JSTD001),  IPC  trainer  for
Acceptance (IPC600/610/620)
IPC  certified  operator  for  soldering
process  (JSTD001),  IPC  trainer  for
Acceptance (IPC600/610/620)
IPC  certified  operator  for  soldering
process  (JSTD001)  and  Acceptance
(IPC600/610/620)
c)For Mechanical chassis and Final integration activity
Page 14 of 17

--- PAGE 15 ---

Mechanical  fitter  Diploma/ITI  with
minimum 3yrs experience in relevant
field
9. DIIPT License Corresponding Details to be filled a)  Valid  Defense  License  issued  by
DPIIT.  This  category  includes  all
electronic  sub-systems  of  on-board
avionics which are On-Board Computer,
Interface  Unit(M/L),  Launch  Processor
Unit,  Navigation  Processing  System,
Control and guidance electronics for on-
board  applications,  Integrated  Avionics
units.
b)  The  supply  order  of  Avionic  sub-
system  corresponding  to  the  year
mentioned  in  DPIIT  License  along  with
detailed  technical  specifications  of  the
sub-system to be submitted.
c) If applied for DPIIT License, mention
time frame by which it will be available
Relevant DPIIT License
Applied, Not Applied or Not submitted
10. On-time Delivery: Delivery of similar
product  executed  within  PDC  of
original Purchase Order (PO)
Corresponding Details to be filled
No extension for last 5 POs within last
5 years
 S.O, delivery challan and PDC extension
letter copies
11. Already involved in development of
the same Sub-system mentioned in
EOI and completed its Qualification
Testing (QT)
Page 15 of 17

--- PAGE 16 ---

i)Yes/No
ii)If  Yes,  QT  Completed  or  not
completed
and QC letter approval No.
SO copy, Green card (QC clearance) and
QT Conformance report to be submitted
12. Experience  in  Sensor  block
Calibration
Number  of  sub-systems  for  which
calibration carried out
SO copy involving calibration of sensors,
number  of  sub-systems  for  which
calibration carried out.
13. Banned/black-listed  from  any
Central  Govt./State  Govt./UT
organization.  The  applicant  firm
should not be bankrupt.
Self-Certificate  to  this  effect  with  duly
signed by authorized signatory of the firm
V. The following annexures should be enclosed otherwise the Firm will not be considered for ToT
Sl.No. Technical Parameters Supporting Documents
Enclosed in Annexure
reference no.
Supporting Documents 
as mentioned above
1 Expertise  in  Avionics  grade  hardware
development, testing and debugging based
on Processors/FPGA/SoC
Annexure-I Enclosed/not enclosed
2 Manufacturing  Experience:  Experience  in
manufacturing defense systems of similar
type, No. of POs executed for similar type
Annexure-II Enclosed/not enclosed
Page 16 of 17

--- PAGE 17 ---

of product in last 5 years
3 Green cards from Defense QA/QC agencies Annexure-III Enclosed/not enclosed
4 ISO 9001:2015  and AS 9100D certification Annexure-IV Enclosed/not enclosed
5 Existing  Test  facilities  (In-house
Manufacturing  capability  Mandatory
facilities)
Annexure-V Enclosed/not enclosed
6 Existing  Test  facilities  (In-house/  sub-
Contractor)
Annexure-VI Enclosed/not enclosed
7 In-house capability of testing, debugging 
and documentation of similar embedded 
systems
Annexure-VII
Enclosed/not enclosed
8 Existing Man power strength Annexure-VIII (a,b,c) Enclosed/not enclosed
9 Relevant DPIIT License Annexure-IX Enclosed/not enclosed
10 On-time  Delivery :  Delivery  of  similar
product  executed  within  PDC  of  original
Purchase Order (PO)
Annexure-X
Enclosed/not enclosed
11 Already involved in development of the 
same Sub-system mentioned in EOI and 
completed its Qualification Testing (QT)
Annexure-XI
Enclosed/not enclosed
12 Experience in Sensor block Calibration Annexure-XII Enclosed/not enclosed
13 Banned/black-listed from any Central 
Govt./State Govt./UT organization. The 
applicant firm should not be bankrupt.
Annexure-XIII
Enclosed/not enclosed
Page 17 of 17