--- PAGE 1 ---

Page 1 of 4 
 
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA, MINISTRY OF DEFENCE 
DEFENCE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ORGANISATION 
TERMINAL BALLISTICS RESEARCH ORGANISATION 
SECTOR - 30, CHANDIGARH - 160 030 
Introduction:  
TBRL has developed a continuous process for production of propellant grade fin e ß-
HMX /fine RDX of mean particle size less than 6 micron (surface mean) with narrow 
distribution and has scaled up the process to required production capacity.  The fine 
ß-HMX is free from undesirable  polymorphs of HMX such as α, γ and δ which are 
unstable and sensitive in nature. The process is safe and environment friendly due to 
recycle of solvent.  By use of  this HMX/RDX, the I SP of the propellant has increased 
by 7 - 8%. Due to this performance impr ovement, the materials have been 
extensively used in  the development of high performance  rocket propellants. The 
materials have met all technical specification s of propellant  grade fine Nitra amine 
and presently are in use for production of import substitu te Rocket propellant. 
Therefore, the requirement of this propellant grade fine ß-HMX/RDX has increased 
many folds in missile and space programs.  
To find suitable industrial  partners for mass production of this propellant grade fine 
ß-HMX/RDX.  
This is a novel process which gives a narrow range of particle size distribution of fine 
ß-HMX/RDX that is  free from undesirable polymorphs of HMX such as α, γ and δ . 
The process is safe and environment friendly  and economical  due to recycle of 
solvents. During the complete process cycle, the cost of the product is also low.  
PRE QUALIFICATION CRITERIA 
1. Only Indian company or consorti a of Indian companies wholly owned by Indian 
individuals/companies are allowed to participate in this EOI.  The consortium of Indian 
companies has to execute an MoU/Agreement between them and define the lead company 
who shall be responsible for all other constituent companies of the consortium for the 
purpose of this EOI. A constituent firm cannot be a part of two consort ia participating in this 
EOI. 

--- PAGE 2 ---

Page 2 of 4 
 
2. Company/consortia of companies should hold valid license s for processing  of 
explosives, ammunition filling (Detonators, PETN/RDX etc.). 
3. The company / lead company of consortium of Indian companies should have an 
annual turnover of Rs.50 Crores fo r the last three years. Fundamentals of the company, like 
company profile, balance sheets and income tax returns etc. for last three years  will be 
mandatory to assess the capability of the firm to undertake the order for subsequent bulk 
production. 
4. On rece ipt of EOIs , the same will be scrutinized by a committee of experts duly 
constituted by the Director, TBRL who shall asses the suitability of the firms for this task. If 
required, the committee may visit premises of the industry seeking ToT for assessment. 
5. DRDO at its discretion can transfer the technology to more than one vendor. 

--- PAGE 3 ---

Page 3 of 4 
 
 
FORMAT FOR APPLICATION FOR EXPRESSION OF INTEREST 
 
1.  Name and full address of the Organization  
2.  Management Structure  
3.  Contact Person with designation  
4.  Contact telephone nu mbers and fax No. and 
Email address 
 
5.  Current operational areas of work  
6.  Turnover for last three years  
7.  Approval/registration with any Govt./Agency  
8.  Details of expertise available in the production  
of explosive materials 
 
9.  Regular manpower available on roll   
10.  Available in house analysis facility, quality 
assurance/quality control facility  
 
11.  Areas of work where expertise available,  
pl. elaborate ( Explosive processing/ Mechanical/ 
Electrical/Chemical/ etc.) 
 
12.  Similar work done for any government  agency 
such as DRDO/ISRO/DAE etc 
 
13.  Any other credentials in the subject area  
14.  Acceptance of TBRL terms and conditions  
 
In addition to above details, industries seeking ToT are requested to submit 
following details with supporting documents: 
(a)  Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per 
Indian Companies Act, as amended time to time) 
(b)  Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 
(c)  Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years. 
(d)  Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period. 
(e)  Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/ 
shareholders, foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the 
ANNEXURE - II 

--- PAGE 4 ---

Page 4 of 4 
 
prevailing Govt of India policies and regulations on Fore ign Direct Investment  
(FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable. 
(f)  Annual budget for R&D during last three years. 
(g)  Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 
(h)  Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 
(i)  Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry 
of Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any). 
(j)  Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production 
capacities) and technical expertise. 
(k)  List of Testing and Support equipments. 
(l)  ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification 
(m)  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 
(n)  Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept  
attendant financial and commercial risks. 
(o)  Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, 
sales and service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 
(p)  PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy 
Material, explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc. 
(q)  Under taking f rom company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, 
Independent Directors, non -executive Directors, Key management personnel are 
involved in any corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities.