--- PAGE 1 ---

Thermally Conducting Light Weight Nanocomposite-based Structures for 
Damping Applications (TCNDA)
The dispersion and distribution of nanofillers in the viscous resin matrix is always a  
challenge.  The  agglomerate  nanofillers  not  only  produce  unpredictable  conduction 
properties but also has been reported to behave a potential weak spot for mechanical  
failures. We have developed a technique for the design and synthesis of topographically 
controlled functional nanomaterials to obtain the multiple performance objectives in a  
single material system. A process technology has also been developed to disperse the  
functional carbon based nanofillers in the polymer matrix at a kilogram level. DMSRDE,  
Kanpur has patented this process.
Edge functionalized few layers
Graphene flakes by Fenton’s reaction
Immobilization of nanotubes
CNTs embedded in graphene 
hierarchical structures
Deagglomerated f-CNTs
200 nm
200 nm
A B C
Figure 1: SEM image of the morphology of 3D hierarchical hybrid carbon nanofillers and  
the SEM image (B) of the 3D nanofillers dispersed into epoxy resin.
The nanofillers dispersion, hand laying on fabrics and curing process technologies are  
optimized for the fabrication of nanocomposite-based end caps, rotor with embedded  
halbach  array  of  NdFeB  magnets  and  stator  with  embedded  Cu  winding  which  is 
extremely challenging as the high temperature curing would de-magnetize the rare  
earth magnets and embedding Cu coil in the fiber reinforced matrix due to dissimilar  
thermal  expansion  coefficient  of  different  materials.  The  curing  and  the  processing 
technologies were optimized to get the desired nanocomposite-based propulsion motor  
structures.
The better interfacial interactions by the higher cross-sectional area of hybrid fillers with  
the resin matrix enhance the overall thermal conductivity of the glass fiber reinforced  
composite (GFRC). This design of materials enables to fabricate the efficient thermal  
conduction channels in GFRC and the whole component could be used for thermal  
management  applications.  Low  density  GFRC  can  be  fabricated  with  the  strength 
comparable with aluminium alloy-based structures. The electrical resistivity of the GRFC 
has been increased compared to metal whereas the thermal conductivity has been  
reduced compared to Al alloy. 
It can be directly used for the engineering, electronics and structural applications.
Interested  companies/industries  are  requested  to  apply  against  this  EoI  to 
following address:-

--- PAGE 2 ---

Director
Defence Materials and Stores Research & Development Establishment 
(DMSRDE)
DRDO, Ministry of Defence, Government of India
PO DMSRDE, GT Road,
Kanpur-208013
Phone : (0512) 2451759-78
Fax : 0512-2450404/ 2404774
E-mail ID : director[dot]dmsrde[at]gov[dot]in
A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:- 
Director,
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM), Room 
No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, 
Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011
Email: diitm[dot]hqr[at]gov[dot]in
Phone No.- 011-23007446 Fax No.-011-23793008
All industries interested in seeking ToT are requested to apply in the format given  
below. Kindly fill in the fields. The list of documents to be attached is provided in  
Annexure – I. Kindly provide the reference of page no. of supporting document in the  
relevant field of form.
Application cum Industry Assessment Form
PART-      1      
General Information
(Please enclose documents in support of information provided)
1. Name of the Technology requested for Technology 
Transfer (Technology name and concerned Lab, 
Category)
2. Name of the industry/ organization
3. Complete Address and other details
Registered Office
State 
Phone No 
Fax
Email 
Website

--- PAGE 3 ---

Factory 
State 
Phone No 
Fax
Email 
Website
4. Point of Contact 
Name 
Designation 
Address
Mobile No 
Ph No 
Email ID
5. NAME OF CMD/ MD /PARTNERS/ PROPRIETOR/
etc
Name 
Designation 
Address 
Mobile No 
Ph No 
Email ID
6. Date of Incorporation of company
7. Foreign Direct Investment in company (if any in %)
8. Shareholding pattern
9. Turn over as per Audited Balance Sheet for the 
preceding three years.
Year 
Year 
Year
10. Annual budget for R&D during last three years (if 
any)
Year 
Year 
Year
11. Income Tax returns for the preceding three 
years period
Year 
Year 
Year
12. Nature of company
DPSU, Private Limited, Public Limited, Partnership, 
Proprietary, Ex- Serviceman Unit
13. Category of industry
Large Scale, Medium Scale, Small Scale, Micro, 
Startup

--- PAGE 4 ---

14. MSME Registration No
15. Certificates of registration as a manufacturing 
unit, if any.
16. If Startup, DPIIT Registration No
17. UDYOG AADHAR No
18. PAN Number
19. Details of Industrial license for defence 
manufacturing issued by DPIIT (if any)
20. Details of PESO license (if any)
21. GST Number
22. Nature of business
Manufacturing/ Sole Selling or Authorized Agent/ 
Assembler/ Traders/ Dealer/ Processor/ Repacker/ 
Others
23. Details of current products and services
Products and services Supplied (please specify Govt/ 
Domestic market/ Export)
24. Record of past performance
(e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of 
Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary 
Forces, if any).
25. Details of registration with
NSIC / SSI, DGS&D, other Defence Department, other 
Govt. Dept, membership of FICCI/ASSOCHAM/CII or 
other Industrial Association
(Attach relevant copies of registration letters)
26. Have you already taken any technology from 
DRDO (If yes, give details attaching separate sheet)
Name of the Technology, Lab, Year, License number 
& Status
27. ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification (If 
yes, give details)
28. Relevant clearances form the authorities/ 
ministries (if any)
29. Capacity and capability to undertake 
developmental work and to accept attendant 
financial and commercial risks.
30. Capacity/capability to market the product through 
the marketing network, sales and service network, 
reliability to maintain confidentiality.

--- PAGE 5 ---

PART-      2      
Infrastructure and other Information
1. Total area of factory 
Covered (m2), 
Uncovered (m2),
Bonded space available (m2)
2. Ownership of factory
Self-owned, partnership, rental
3. Electric power 
Sanctioned 
Installed 
Standby (if any)
4. Availability of adequate infrastructure
(List of machines and their production capacities) and 
technical expertise
5. Name of bank & A/c No Name of bank
A/c type 
A/c no
Address of the bank 
Phone:
Email:
 Details of current products:
S.No Type Description Licensed/installed capacity Annual production for preceding 3 
years
 Details of foreign collaboration, if any
S.No Product Name and address of collaborator Year Remarks
 Details of products developed for services
S.No Nomenclature of stores Order No. and date Remarks

--- PAGE 6 ---

 Please  give details of important facilities & infrastructure as per following 
format for:
(a) Production
(b) Unconventional, special m/c
(c) Testing & quality control facilities
 Furnish the following details with relevant certificates and documents
(a) R&D facilities available :
(b) Inspection quality control of raw material components :
(c) Assistance from central agency for testing / calibration etc.:
(d) laboratory and drawing office facility
:
 Principal customers:
S. No Name & address S.O No and 
date
Date of last 
supply
Products 
supplied
Value
 Future plans (if any) in respect of expansion programme/ installation of 
additional machines/ test facilities etc.
 Name of the technology requested for transfer
(give self- assessment of your capability to absorb the technology)
 Details of employee as on date on firm’s pay roll
PERMANENT
Category Post Held Number Qualificatio 
n
Total Service
Technical Prod. Manager
Q.C. Manager 
Supervisor 
Testing Staff 
(QC) Skilled 
workers
Unskilled workers, etc
Administrative Purchase Manager 
Accounts Officer 
Office Superintendent 
Clerical
Others, etc
TEMPORARY

--- PAGE 7 ---

Category Post Held Number Qualificatio 
n
Total Service
Technical Prod. Manager
Q.C. Manager 
Supervisor 
Testing Staff 
(QC) Skilled 
workers
Unskilled workers, etc
Administrative Purchase Manager 
Accounts Officer 
Office 
Superintendent 
Clerical
Others, etc

--- PAGE 8 ---

DECLARATION
I / we confirm that the information furnished in Part 1 & 2 above is correct. In the event 
of any information given by me / us is found incorrect / false at any time, I / we understand 
our EoI for ToT  will be cancelled/ rejected without notice, beside any other appropriate 
action against me / us.
Industry seal Authorized signatory 
Name(s) in capital
Designation and seal of authorized signatory
Date: 
Place:

--- PAGE 9 ---

Annexure-I
List     of     Support documents         to     be         attached     with   EoI      
(a) Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian Companies  
Act, as amended time to time)
(b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.
(c) Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.
(d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period
(e) Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/ shareholders, foreign  
employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of India policies  
and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.
(f) Annual budget for R&D during last three years.
(g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.
(h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.
(i) Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of Defence  
orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).
(j) Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities) and  
technical expertise.
(k) List of Testing and Support equipment’s
(l) ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification
(m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any)
(n) Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant financial  
and commercial risks.
(o) Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and service  
network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.
(p) PESO  and  DPIIT  license  for  explosive  handling  if  ToT  is  for  high  energy  Material, 
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.
(q) Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent Directors,  
non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any corrupt practices,  
unfair means and illegal activities.
(r) Details of the industrial license for defence manufacturing be provided by the industry  
seeking ToTs.