--- PAGE 1 ---

Page 1 of 7 
 
 
Technology Name: Advanced Instant Fire Detection and Suppression System (AIFDSS) 
 
Necessity: When Armour piercing projectile penetrates Armour and passes through the fuel 
tank or the hydraulic lines, a portion of the fuels or hydraulic fluid is always carried into the 
crew compartment under high pressure and in atomized form. The result is a potentially 
explosive atmosphere that can be ignited b y the hot edges of the impact point or by hot 
fragments. The ball of flame caused by the rapid combustion fills the entire crew 
compartment resulting extremely high temp and pressure. 
In the engine compartment when engine temperature rises above 120°C then  engine 
overheat condition is required to come through audio and visual indication and above 140°C 
engine fire condition is required to come along with automatic actuation of fire extinguisher  
to extinguish fire. 
Solution:  Detection of fire is required to  be achieved within 20ms and 90% extinguishant is 
required to  be released  within 60ms to achieve a total fire out time of 130 ms in crew 
compartment. This can  save the crew and AFV both from over temperature and pressure . 
However in the engine compartment fire wire detectors can give a large volume fire coverage 
along with a total fire out time of 10 sec 
CFEES has indigenously developed a very fast operating, highly rugged and Advanced 
Reduced Instruction Set Computer Machine (ARM) based Advanced Instant Fire Detection 
and Suppression System (AIFDSS) for armoured fighting vehicles. The developed system is 
completely indigenous and capable of giving even better performance as compared to the 
imported systems. 
The system comprises Smart IR detector (SIRD)  for incipient stage fire  detection in crew 
compartment, displ ay and power supply unit (DPSU) , Alarm cum flasher unit (AFU),  fire 
wire, fire wire interface unit (FWIU) , fire extinguisher interface unit (FEIU) and squib 
operated automatic fire extinguisher to achieve the total fire  out time 130ms in crew 
compartment and 10 sec in the engine compartment. 
System has  a dual communication protocol for every data transfer along with a fire data 
storage memory of last 200 fire event s. IP66 and IP68 class of Ingress protection for sub -
unit a nd a Halon 1301 alternative gas for engine compartment is available in the system.  
System compl ies with EMI/EMC as per MIL461G, Climatic and durabi lity test as per JSS 
55555 and recommended life is 15 years.  
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 2 ---

Page 2 of 7 
 
1. Industries are requested to submit their expression of Interest for ToT within 21 
days of publishing of technology on DRDO web -page. Interested companies/ 
industries are requested to apply against this EoI to following address:- 
 
To, 
 
The Director 
Centre for Fire, Explosive and Environment Safety (CFEES) 
Brig. S.K. Mujumdar Marg, Timarpur-Delhi-110054 
E-mail: director.cfees@gov.in 
Ph:011-23907321 
Fax No: 011-23819547 
 
2.  A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:- 
 
To,  
The Director, 
Directorate of Industry Interface & Quality Management (DIIQM), 
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011 
E-mail: diitm.hqr@gov.in 
Phone No. 011-23007446 
Fax-011-23793008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 3 ---

Page 3 of 7 
 
Annexure-II to Appendix ‘D’ 
 
 
All industries interested in seeking ToT are requested to apply in the fo rmat given below. 
Kindly fill in the fields. The list of documents to be attached is provided in Annexure – I. Kindly 
provide the reference of page no. of supporting document in the relevant field of form. 
PART-1  
General Information 
(Please enclose documents in support of information provided) 
1.  Name of the Technology requested for 
Technology Transfer (Technology name and 
concerned Lab, Category) 
 
2.  Name of the industry/ organization  
3.  Complete Address and other details  
Registered Office 
State 
Phone No 
Fax 
Email 
Website 
 
Factory 
State 
Phone No 
Fax 
Email 
Website 
 
4.  Point of Contact  
Name 
Designation 
Address 
Mobile No 
Ph No 
Email ID 
 
5.  NAME OF CMD/ MD /PARTNERS/ 
PROPRIETOR/ etc  
Name 
Designation 
Address 
Mobile No 
Ph No 
Email ID 
 
6.  Date of Incorporation of company  
7.  Foreign Direct Investment in company (if 
any in %) 
 
8.  Shareholding pattern  
9.  Turn over as per Audited Balance Sheet for 
the preceding three years. 
Year ____ 
Year ____ 
Year ____ 
 
10.  Annual budget for R&D during last three 
years (if any) 
Year ____  
Year ____  
Year ____ 
 
11.  Income Tax returns for the preceding three  

--- PAGE 4 ---

Page 4 of 7 
 
years period  
Year ____ 
Year ____  
Year ____ 
12.  Nature of company 
DPSU, Private Limited, Public Limited, 
Partnership, Proprietary, Ex- Serviceman Unit  
 
13.  Category of industry 
Large Scale, Medium Scale, Small Scale, 
Micro, Startup 
 
14.  MSME Registration No  
15.  Certificates of registration as a 
manufacturing unit, if any. 
 
16.  If Startup, DPIIT Registration No  
17.  UDYOG AADHAR No  
18.  PAN Number  
19.  Details of Industrial license for defence 
manufacturing issued by DPIIT (if any) 
 
20.  Details of PESO license (if any)  
21.  GST Number  
22.  Nature of business 
Manufacturing/ Sole Selling or Authorized 
Agent/ Assembler/ Traders/ Dealer/ Processor/ 
Repacker/ Others  
 
23.  Details of current products and services 
Products and services Supplied (please specify 
Govt/ Domestic market/ Export)  
 
24.  Record of past performance 
(e.g., Supply orders executed against of 
Ministry of Defence orders, Public Sectors and 
Paramilitary Forces, if any).  
 
25.  Details of registration with 
NSIC / SSI, DGS&D, other Defence 
Department, other Govt. Dept, membership of 
FICCI/ASSOCHAM/CII or other Industrial  
Association 
(Attach relevant copies of registration 
letters) 
 
26.  Have you already taken any technology from 
DRDO (If yes, give details attachi ng separate 
sheet) 
 
Name of the Technology, Lab, Year, License 
number & Status 
 
27.  ISO/ ISI certification or any other 
certification (If yes, give details)  
 
28.  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ 
ministries (if any) 
 
29.  Capacity and capability to undertake 
developmental work and to accept attendant 
financial and commercial risks. 
 
30.  Capacity/capability to market the product 
through the marketing network, sales and 
service network, reliability to maintain 
confidentiality. 
 

--- PAGE 5 ---

Page 5 of 7 
 
 
PART-2 
Infrastructure and other Information 
1.  Total area of factory  
Covered (m2),  
Uncovered (m2), 
Bonded space available (m2) 
 
2.  Ownership of factory 
Self-owned, partnership, rental 
 
3.  Electric power 
Sanctioned 
Installed 
Standby (if any) 
 
4.  Availability of adequate infrastructure  
(List of machines and their production capacities) and 
technical expertise 
 
5.  Name of bank & A/c No Name of bank 
A/c type 
A/c no 
Address of the bank  
Phone:  
Email: 
 
 
6. Details of current products: 
S.No Type Description Licensed/installed 
capacity 
Annual production for preceding 
3 years 
     
      
7. Details of foreign collaboration, if any 
S.No Product Name and address of collaborator Year Remarks 
     
     
 
8. Details of products developed for services 
S.No Nomenclature of stores Order No. and date Remarks 
    
    
 
9. Please give details of important facilities & infrastructure as per 
following format for: 
(a) Production 
(b) Unconventional, special m/c 
(c) Testing & quality control facilities  
S.No Description of 
m/c 
Make & model Qty Date of 
purchase 
Remarks 
      
      
 
10. Furnish  the following details with relevant certificates and documents 
(a) R&D facilities available       : 
(b) Inspection quality control of raw material components  : 

--- PAGE 6 ---

Page 6 of 7 
 
(c) Assistance from central agency for testing / calibration etc. : 
(d) laboratory and drawing office facility     : 
11.  Principal customers: 
S. No Name & address S.O No and 
date 
Date of last 
supply 
Products 
supplied 
Value 
      
      
 
12. Future plans (if any) in respect of expansion programme/ installation of 
additional machines/ test facilities etc. 
13. Name of the technology requested for transfer 
(give self-assessment of your capability to absorb the technology) 
 
14. Details of employee as on date on firm’s pay roll 
PERMANENT 
Category Post Held Number Qualification Total Service 
Technical Prod. Manager 
Q.C. Manager 
Supervisor 
Testing Staff (QC) 
Skilled workers 
Unskilled workers, etc 
   
Administrative Purchase Manager 
Accounts Officer  
Office Superintendent 
Clerical 
Others, etc 
   
 
TEMPORARY 
Category Post Held Number Qualification Total Service 
Technical Prod. Manager 
Q.C. Manager 
Supervisor 
Testing Staff (QC) 
Skilled workers 
Unskilled workers, etc 
   
Administrative Purchase Manager 
Accounts Officer  
Office Superintendent 
Clerical 
Others, etc 
   
 
DECLARATION: 
I / we confirm that the information furnished in Part 1 & 2 above is correct. In the 
event of any information given by me / us is found incorrect / false at any time, I / we 
understand our EoI for ToT will be cancelled/ rejected without notice, beside any other 
appropriate action against me / us. 
 
Industry seal           Authorized signatory 
Name(s) in capital 
Designation and seal of authorized signatory 
 
Date:   
Place: 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 7 ---

Page 7 of 7 
 
Annexure – I 
List of Support documents to be attached with EoI 
 
(a)  Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporat ed as per Indian 
Companies Act, as amended time to time) 
(b)  Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 
(c)  Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  
(d)  Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  
(e)  Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/ shareholders, 
foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of 
India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as 
applicable.  
(f)  Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  
(g)  Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 
(h)  Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 
 (i)  Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed aga inst of Ministry of 
Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  
(j)  Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities) 
and technical expertise.  
(k)  List of Testing and Support equipment’s 
 (l)  ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  
(m)  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 
(n)  Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant 
financial and commercial risks.  
(o)  Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and 
service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 
(p)  PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material, 
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  
(q)  Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent 
Directors, non -executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any 
corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities. 
(r)  Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by the industry 
seeking ToTs. 
(s)  Application cum Industry Assessment Form