--- PAGE 1 ---

Application for Booking the Services of SRM Centre, CEMILAC 
1 Name of the Organization wanted to carry 
out SRM Analysis 
2 Contact Person from the Organisation 
Responsible for Safety Analysis 
3 Address and Telephone Number and E mail 
id of the Contract person: 
4 Name of the project for which SRM Analysis 
to be done 
5 Duration (No. of Days) for which the 
Appointment is Required 
6 Confirmation Availability of all the Pre- Yes /No 
requisite information as per Annexure 1: 
7 RCMA/CEMILAC person involved in the 
Airworthiness certification of the 
Item/LRU/Syst 
8 Prior Security approval for Company Yes /No 
personnel to work in CEMILAC Premises 
has been obtained or not ? If yes provide | Ref: 
the Reference Number of Security 
Clearance Letter 
Undertaking by the Applicant 
|, hereby undertake that the usage of SRM Centre for the technical analysis is for the end 
use of the of the above Project only and if | get the permission from CE, CEMILAC to use 
the facilities at CEMILAC premises, my team will abide by all the rules and regulations and 
security instructions of CEMILAC. | also declare that | take the full responsibility of the 
Analysis results and indemnify CEMILAC and its personnel from any legal consequences 
arising from the above work. 
Signature of Applicant 
Name and Designation 
Date: 
For Office Use Only 
Recommended / Not Recommended Recommended / Not Recommended 
RD/Director, Platform RCMA / Group Joint Director (Admin) 
Time Slot Available oo... | 0 
Approval by Chief Executive (A), CEMILAC 
Approved / Not Approved 
Chief Executive (A), CEMILAC 

--- PAGE 2 ---

Annexure 1 
Pre-requisite Technical Information Essential for System Safety 
Analysis 
A. System Specific Details: 
1) System Description 
2) System Requirements 
3) System Safety Programme Plan 
B. Operation / Mission Specific: 
1) System Function 
2) Stages / Phases of Operation 
3) Identification of Functional Hazards 
4) Failure Modes and their Effects 
5) Severity Classification for the Failure mode 
6) Environment of the system to be used. 
7) Mission details (Ex: Mission time, Mission Mode etc.) 
C. Design Specific: 
1) Functional Block Diagram 
2) Failure Rates of individual components/subsystem/modules with 
units 
3) Component derating if any for the given design 
4) Design standards used. 
5) Design Architecture/ Redundancies etc in the design to meet the 
reliability/ safety goal