--- PAGE 1 ---

Manufacturing  of  EDB Propellant ERAS-TI-2000
Extruded  Double  Base  (EDB)  Motor  demands  high  burn  rate  EDB  propellant.  The
Propellant needs to meet the following requirements:-
(i) High burn rate.
(ii) High Mechinical Properties suitable for free standing grain.
(iii) Smokeless exhaust.
(iv) Low Pressure exponent values in high pressure range.
(v) Suitable for operation in temperature of range of -20o C to +55o C.
HEMRL has developed EDB Propellant to meet the requirement of enhanced ranges. A
unique  combination  of  ballistic  modifiers  and   processing  methodology  was  used  to
achieve the high burn rate and desired ballistic properties.
NC-NG based high burn rate EDB propellant composition was developed in order to meet
the required pressure time & thrust time profile. Processing and validation method of this
EDB motor propellant is different from  regular EDB & composite propellant processing
technology.
The EDB propellant processing technology has been fully established  and validated in
static and flight trials. All the development activities such as establishement of Double
Base EDB Propellant composition, Processing technology, ballistic performance evaluation
trials, dynamic trials and range table validation trials have been sucessfully completed . All
the QRs  have been met in the trials.
Developed technology is at par with globally available technology. All the raw materials
and equipment required for processing of EDB propellant ERAS-TI-2000 are avaialble
indigenously. The propellant manufacturing technology is now mature & ready for transfer
to industry partner.
1. Interested  Companies/industries  are  requested  to  apply  against this  EoI to  the
following address:-
To, 
The Director,
High Energy Materials Research  Laboratory (HEMRL)
Sutarwadi, Pune-411 021
Email- director.hemrl@gov.in
2. A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:-
To, 
The Director, 
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM)
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011
Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in

--- PAGE 2 ---

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI:-
(a) Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian  
Companies Act, as amended time to time).
(b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.
(c) Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.
(d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period.
(e) Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/shareholders, 
foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt
of 
India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/ DIPP norms as
applicable.
(f) Annual budget for R&D during last three years.
(g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.
(h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.
(i) Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of  
Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).
(j) Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  machines  and  their  production  
capacities) and technical expertise.
(k) List of Testing and Support equipments.
(l) ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification.
(m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any).
(n) Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept
attendant financial and commercial risks.
(o) Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and
service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.
(p) PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material,  
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.
(q) Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent  
Directors, non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any 
corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities.
(r) Details of the industries license for Defence manufacturing be provided by the  
industry seeking ToTs.