--- PAGE 1 ---

 
 
DRDO Industry Interaction Groups (IIGs) 
DRDO stands committed to empower the Indian Defence Industry Eco-system to realise the 
vision of “Atmanirbhar Bharat” and indigenised solutions for the Indian Defence Forces. 
With this aim to increase Synergy between DRDO and industries and to enhance 
understanding of DRDO Policies and Procedures among Industries, DRDO has taken the 
initiative and instituted the Industry Interaction Group (IIG) at all Laboratories/ 
Centres/ Establishment and HQ DRDO. 
Creation of IIG is a step towards engraining industrial efforts in collective development of 
industrial defence ecosystem. It’s an initiative, conceptualized to provide direct access to 
industries to express their concerns and resolve the issues with the respective labs/ Centres/ 
Establishments. Teams at the labs/ Centres/ Establishments are assigned the role to address 
the issues of the industries and apprise the HQ at regular interval. It’s a channel established 
to provide comprehensive explanation of DRDO policies to the industries and also to accept 
suggestions for ensembling practicality for effective implementation and evolution of the 
existing policies. IIG is a proactive and structural framework instituted to enable industries, 
giving them the opportunity to interact periodically with labs/ Centres/ Establishments and 
HQ DRDO, and bring forward their suggestions, concerns, queries and grievances, if any, 
by way of one-on-one interactions, with concerned Labs. 
To facilitate this, IIGs at Lab/ Centres/ Establishments level will be open for interaction 
with industries on their premises on first and third Wednesday of every month from 11:00 
AM to 01:00 PM. 
All IIGs are headed by a Single Point Of Contact (SPOC) and the details have been placed 
at Annexure to this notice, which includes Lab/ Centres/ Establishments IIG email address 
and contact numbers. The industries should intimate the Lab/ Centres/ Establishments 
SPOCs of their intent to attend the next scheduled IIG meeting and enunciate their agenda 
in brief (not more than 10 lines) by last working days of the previous week. This would 
enable the Labs/ Centres/ Establishments to be adequately prepared for fruitful targeted 
discussion to address the issue raised during the IIG meeting. 
 

--- PAGE 2 ---

 
 
Post the IIG meeting at Lab/ Centres/ Establishments level, should any issue require further 
elucidation, the Industry is free to attend IIG meeting at HQ DRDO scheduled on the last 
Friday of every month between 11:00 AM and 1:00 PM. The industries should intimate 
SPOC of HQ DRDO of their intent to attend the IIG meeting and provide their agenda (not 
more than 10 lines) along with the deliberations held with Lab/ Centres/ Establishments 
SPOC, by the Monday of the said week. SPOC details of IIG at DIITM/ HQ DRDO have 
also been annexed to the notice.  
Industries are encouraged to reap benefit from this initiative and exploit the framework to 
their advancement and march together with DRDO towards a “Viksit Bharat”.