--- PAGE 1 ---

 
Recruitment and Assessment Centre (RAC)  is an independent self -accounting unit of DRDO under Min. of 
Defence engaged in a wide range of selection activities related to recruitment, assessment and training of 
scientists of DRDO on regular basis. It also extends the similar selection services to Aeronautical Development 
Agency (ADA) and other allied agencies.  RAC  was set up on 23 July 1985 after DRDO was granted exemption 
from the purview of Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). 
RAC is looking for a qualified candidate with an established and proven track record for appointment to the post 
of Chairperson RAC (Level 17 of Pay Matrix in the 7th CPC/ Pay level ₹ 2,25,000). 
Job Description  
Chairperson RAC is mainly responsible for formulation of policies related to recruitment and assessment of 
DRDO & ADA Scientists. Chairperson RAC is also responsible for providing guidance so as to ensure objectivity 
and confidentiality in execution of all selection activities so as to achieve highest level of satisfaction of all 
stakeholders. 
Eligibility  
Eminent Retired / Serving persons (Scientists, Technologists, Academicians and Civil Servants) at the level of 
Secretary to the Govt. of India (Level 17 of Pay Matrix in the 7th CPC/ Pay level Rs. 2,25,000) are eligible to apply. 
Selection Process  
The Chairperson will be appointed on re -employment on contract. The Chairperson will be selected through a 
high-level Search-cum-Selection Committee appointed by the Government of India, in accordance with extant 
DOP&T instructions, with the approval of Appointments Committee of Cabinet (ACC).  
The Search-cum-Selection Committee will have the authority to consider any other name(s) for the appointment 
to the said post apart from considering biodata received against this advertisement.  
Duration of Appointment  
Appointment will be made for a period of three (03) years  or till attainment of 65 years of age , whichever is 
earlier. 
Undertaking  
Interested persons are required to give an undertaking as a part of the biodata that he/she will join the post, if 
selected. Biodata without undertaking will summarily be rejected.  
How to Apply  
The format of biodata can be downloaded from RAC website and duly filled biodata can be sent to : 
‘The Director, Recruitment and Assessment Centre, Lucknow Road, Timarpur, Delhi – 110054 ’  
by Speed Post so as to reach within 30 days from the date of publication of this advertisement in Employment 
News. 
For details, please visit RAC website: ht t p s : / / r a c .g o v .i n. For any query in this regard, please contact through 
email at di r e c t o r .r ac @ g o v .i n 
 
 
 
APPOINTMENT OF CHAIRPERSON  
Recruitment & Assessment Centre (RAC) 
Defence Research & Development Organisation (DRDO) 
Ministry of Defence, Government of India 
Lucknow Road, Timarpur, Delhi-110054 
 
Advertisement No. 158 
Closing date : 07 Sep 2026 
 


--- PAGE 2 ---

1 | P a g e  
 
 
 
Pay & Perks 
 
Following are the entitlements of the Chairperson, RAC (indicative, as per 
Govt rules/norms, subject to amendments): 
⚫ Basic pay (less pension): Rs 112500 
⚫ DA on Basic pay, as applicable 
⚫ Accommodation, or HRA as applicable, if staying in own house/on 
rent 
⚫ Staff Car  
⚫ Reimbursement of Newspaper expenditure 
⚫ Reimbursement of Telephone bill expenditure  
⚫ Reimbursement of Briefcase / Office bag expenditure every three 
years 
 

--- PAGE 3 ---

1 | P a g e  
 
Download for filling 
  
 
BIODATA FORMAT FOR APPOINTMENT TO THE POST OF CHAIRPERSON OF 
RECRUITMENT AND ASSESSMENT CENTRE (RAC), DRDO 
Advertisement No.  158 
 
 
11..    GGeenneerraall  IInnffoorrmmaattiioonn  ooff  AApppplliiccaanntt  
Name  Date of Birth  
Gender  
Date of retirement / 
Age as on closing 
date 
 
Nationality  Category  
E-mail  
Address  Mobile no.  
22..    EEdduuccaattiioonnaall  QQuuaalliiffiiccaattiioonnss  
Degree/Course Institution Year Subject(s) 
Percentage of 
marks/ Grade/ 
Division 
Graduation     
Post Graduation     
Ph.D.     
Topic of Ph.D.  
Post Doctorate      
Topic of Post Doctorate 
Studies  
33..    AArreeaa  ooff  SSppeecciiaalliizzaattiioonn  
 
 
44..    EEmmppllooyymmeenntt  DDeettaaiillss  ((ssttaarrttiinngg  ffrroomm  ccuurrrreenntt//llaatteesstt  ppoosstt  hheelldd))  
Post & Pay Level** Institution Date 
From - To 
Years, Months of 
Experience Nature of Duties 
     
     
55..    PPuubblliiccaattiioonnss  
No. of  Papers 
published 
 
 
No. of Books 
published 
 
 
66..    DDeettaaiillss  ooff  tteenn  bbeesstt  ppuubblliisshheedd  ppaappeerrss  aass  ppeerr  oowwnn  aasssseessssmmeenntt  
 

--- PAGE 4 ---

2 | P a g e  
 
77..    DDeettaaiillss  ooff  ffiivvee  bbeesstt  ppuubblliisshheedd  bbooookkss  aass  ppeerr  oowwnn  aasssseessssmmeenntt  
 
 
88..    SScchhoollaarrsshhiippss//AAwwaarrddss//MMeemmbbeerrsshhiippss  ooff  AAccaaddeemmiicc//PPrrooffeessssiioonnaall  SSoocciieettiieess  eettcc.. 
 
 
 
 
99..    DDeettaaiillss  ooff  RReeffeerreeeess 
S. No. Name Most Important 
Post held E-mail Contact No. 
     
     
     
1100..    PPlleeaassee  jjuussttiiffyy  iinn  225500  wwoorrddss  ((aapppprrooxx..))  aass  ttoo  wwhhyy  ddoo  yyoouu  tthhiinnkk  yyoouu  aarree  ssuuiittaabbllee  ffoorr  tthhiiss  jjoobb:: 
 
 
 
 
 
DECLARATION 
I declare that the foregoing information is correct and complete to the best of my knowledge and belief 
and nothing has been concealed /distorted.  If at any time, I am found to have concealed /distorted any material 
information, the said appointment shall be liable to summary termination without notice.  I, hereby, also undertake 
that, if selected, I will join the post.  
 
 
         (Signature of Applicant) 
 
Date:  
 
 
** Please attach proof of pay level 17 / Secretary level post viz. appointment letter / pension payment order  
     (PPO) etc.