--- PAGE 1 ---

 
SINGLE OUTLET AUTOMATED RESUSCITATOR (SOAR) 
 The Single Outlet Automated Resuscitator (SOAR) is a microcontroller based assistive 
breathing equipment for resuscitating personnel with breathing difficulties under NBC affected 
scenarios. It works on Volume Control - Continuous Mandatory Ventilation (VC -CMV) mode 
with detection of Patient Breathing. The respiration rate, minute volume and pressure can be 
set by selector switch. The patient circuit contains a corrugated hose through which the 
breathing gas is delivered to the patient. It provides audio visual alarm against high inflation 
pressure, low inlet pressure and in-advertent disconnection. 
Salient features: 
 Tidal Volume range: 100-1200 ml 
 Minute Volume range: 2-12 lpm 
 Fixed Inhalation-Exhalation ratio of 1:2 
 Breathing gas under positive pressure selectable up to 40cm H2O 
 Input pressure range: 2.8 to 4 bar g 
 Provision for contamination free breathing with ambient air, oxygen enriched air as well 
as provision for 100% oxygen through external sources 
 Audio Visual alarm against high inflation pressure, low inlet pressure and in -advertent 
disconnection. 
 The endurance of the equipment is greater than 2 hrs or till gas source and / or 
electrical supply continues. 
 It follows the breathing demands of the patients so as to automatically revert to 
spontaneous respiration when resumed. 
 The sound level of the equipment is less than 80 dB at a distance of 1 metre. 
 It operates from 220V AC ± 10%, 50/60 Hz AC (Primary), rechargeable internal battery 
Lithium ion or equivalent (Secondary) and external ambulance battery. 
 The system is portable and field deployable. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 2 ---

 1. Interested companies/industries are requested to apply against this EoI to 
following address:- 
 
To, 
The Director 
Defence Bioengineering & Electromedical Laboratory (DEBEL), 
DRDO, Govt. of India, Ministry of Defence, 
New Thippansandra, Bangalore-560 075 
 
2.  A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:- 
 
To,  
The Director, 
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM), 
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011 
Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in 
Fax-011-23793008 
Ph:011-23007446 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 3 ---

All industries interested in seeking ToT are requested to apply in the format given below. 
Kindly fill in the fields. The list of documents to be attached is provided in Annexure – I. Kindly 
provide the reference of page no. of supporting document in the relevant field of form. 
PART-1  
General Information 
(Please enclose documents in support of information provided) 
1.  Name of the Technology requested 
for Technology Transfer 
(Technology name and concerned 
Lab, Category) 
 
2.  Name of the industry/ organization  
3.  Complete Address and other 
details 
 
Registered Office 
State 
Phone No 
Fax 
Email 
Website 
 
Factory 
State 
Phone No 
Fax 
Email 
Website 
 
4.  Point of Contact  
Name 
Designation 
Address 
Mobile No 
Ph No 
Email ID 
 
5.  NAME OF CMD/ MD /PARTNERS/ 
PROPRIETOR/ etc  
 

--- PAGE 4 ---

Name 
Designation 
Address 
Mobile No 
Ph No 
Email ID 
6.  Date of Incorporation of company  
7.  Foreign Direct Investment in 
company (if any in %) 
 
8.  Shareholding pattern  
9.  Turn over as per Audited Balance 
Sheet for the preceding three 
years. 
Year ____ 
Year ____ 
Year ____ 
 
10.  Annual budget for R&D during last 
three years (if any) 
Year ____  
Year ____  
Year ____ 
 
11.  Income Tax returns for the 
preceding three years period  
Year ____ 
Year ____  
Year ____ 
 
12.  Nature of company 
DPSU, Private Limited, Public Limited, 
Partnership, Proprietary, Ex - 
Serviceman Unit  
 
13.  Category of industry 
Large Scale, Medium Scale, Small 
Scale, Micro, Startup  
 
14.  MSME Registration No  

--- PAGE 5 ---

15.  Certificates of registration as a 
manufacturing unit, if any. 
 
16.  If Startup, DPIIT Registration No  
17.  UDYOG AADHAR No  
18.  PAN Number  
19.  Details of Industrial license for 
defence manufacturing issued by 
DPIIT (if any) 
 
20.  Details of PESO license (if any)  
21.  GST Number  
22.  Nature of business 
Manufacturing/ Sole Selling or 
Authorized Agent/ Assembler/ 
Traders/ Dealer/ Processor/ 
Repacker/ Others  
 
23.  Details of current products and 
services 
Products and services Supplied 
(please specify Govt/ Domestic 
market/ Export)  
 
24.  Record of past performance 
(e.g., Supply orders executed against 
of Ministry of Defence orders, Public 
Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if 
any). 
 
25.  Details of registration with 
NSIC / SSI, DGS&D, other Defence 
Department, other Govt. Dept, 
membership of 
FICCI/ASSOCHAM/CII or other 
Industrial Association 
(Attach relevant copies of 
registration letters) 
 
26.  Have you already taken any 
technology from DRDO (If yes, give 
details attaching separate sheet)  
 
Name of the Technology, Lab, Year, 
License number & Status  
 

--- PAGE 6 ---

27.  ISO/ ISI certification or any other 
certification (If yes, give details)  
 
28.  Relevant clearances form the 
authorities/ ministries (if any) 
 
29.  Capacity and capability to 
undertake developmental work and 
to accept attendant financial and 
commercial risks. 
 
30.  Capacity/capability to market the 
product through the marketing 
network, sales and service 
network, reliability to maintain 
confidentiality. 
 
 
PART-2 
Infrastructure and other Information 
1.  Total area of factory  
Covered (m2),  
Uncovered (m2), 
Bonded space available (m2) 
 
2.  Ownership of factory 
Self-owned, partnership, rental 
 
3.  Electric power 
Sanctioned 
Installed 
Standby (if any) 
 
4.  Availability of adequate infrastructure  
(List of machines and their production 
capacities) and technical expertise 
 
5.  Name of bank & A/c No Name of bank 
A/c type 
A/c no 
Address of the bank  
 

--- PAGE 7 ---

Phone:  
Email: 
 
6. Details of current products: 
S.No Type Description Licensed/installed 
capacity 
Annual production for preceding 3 
years 
     
     
 
7. Details of foreign collaboration, if any 
S.No Product Name and address of 
collaborator 
Year Remarks 
     
 
8. Details of products developed for services 
S.No Nomenclature of stores Order No. and date Remarks 
    
 
9. Please give details of important facilities & infrastructure as per 
following format for: 
(a) Production 
(b) Unconventional, special m/c 
(c) Testing & quality control facilities  
S.No Description of 
m/c 
Make & model Qty Date of 
purchase 
Remarks 
      
 
10. Furnish  the following details with relevant certificates and documents 
(a) R&D facilities available       : 
(b) Inspection quality control of raw material components  : 
(c) Assistance from central agency for testing / calibration etc. : 
(d) laboratory and drawing office facility     : 
11.  Principal  customers: 
S. No Name & address S.O No and 
date 
Date of last 
supply 
Products 
supplied 
Value 
      
      
 
12. Future plans (if any) in respect of expansion programme/ installation of 
additional machines/ test facilities etc. 

--- PAGE 8 ---

13. Name of the technology requested for transfer 
(give self-assessment of your capability to absorb the technology) 
 
14. Details of employee as on date on firm’s pay roll 
PERMANENT 
Category Post Held Number Qualification Total Service 
Technical Prod. Manager 
Q.C. Manager 
Supervisor 
Testing Staff (QC) 
Skilled workers 
Unskilled workers, etc 
   
Administrative Purchase Manager 
Accounts Officer  
Office Superintendent 
Clerical 
Others, etc 
   
 
TEMPORARY 
Category Post Held Number Qualification Total Service 
Technical Prod. Manager 
Q.C. Manager 
Supervisor 
Testing Staff (QC) 
Skilled workers 
Unskilled workers, etc 
   
Administrative Purchase Manager 
Accounts Officer  
Office Superintendent 
Clerical 
Others, etc 
   
 
 
 
DECLARATION: 

--- PAGE 9 ---

I / we confirm that the information furnished in Part 1 & 2 above is correct. In the 
event of any information given by me / us is found incorrect / false at any time, I / we 
understand our EoI for ToT will be cancelled/ rejected without notice, beside any other 
appropriate action against me / us. 
 
 
Industry seal           Authorized signatory 
Name(s) in capital 
Designation and seal of authorized signatory 
 
Date:   
Place: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annexure – I 

--- PAGE 10 ---

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI 
(a)  Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian 
Companies Act, as amended time to time) 
 (b)  Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 
 (c)  Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  
(d)  Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  
(e)  Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/ shareholders, 
foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of 
India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as 
applicable.  
(f)  Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  
(g)  Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 
 (h)  Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 
 (i)  Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of 
Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  
(j)  Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities) 
and technical expertise.  
(k)  List of Testing and Support equipment’s 
 (l)  ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  
(m)  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 
(n)  Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant 
financial and commercial risks.  
(o)  Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and 
service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 
(p)  PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material, 
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  
(q)  Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent 
Directors, non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any 
corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities. 
(r)  Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by the industry 
seeking ToTs. 
(s)  Application cum Industry Assessment Form