--- PAGE 1 ---

DHWANI - Automated SONAR Trainer (DAST)
NPOL has designed and developed Dhwani Automated Sonar Trainer (DAST).
The system is fully automated so that the instructor can control the operation of
acoustic  tank  from  the GUI.   This  helps  to  understand  the  sonar  working
principles to  different levels of naval  personal.  The system consist of fully
Automated Acoustic Tank and Data acquisition system of 20 channel with power
amplifier,  PC  and  an  LCD  screen.  The  system  is  possible  to  customize
experiments.  The experiments have been set for different levels like Basic,
Intermediate and Advanced which cover from Sailors, Inducting officers and
Offices.   The  experiments  are  done  with  200  KHz  sensors.   Different
experiments includes Active sonar, Passive Sonar, Bottom characteristics, Beam
pattern,  Beam  forming,  Doppler,  Different  types  of  waveforms,  effect  of
different signals, effect of materials, effect of aspects, UCS, etc.   
Interested  Industries  are  requested  to  forward  their  Expression  of
Interest (EoI) to Director NPOL, Kochi (with attachments of supporting
documents)  with  a  copy  to  Director  DIITM,  DRDO  HQ  (without
attachment) on following address:-
Director
Naval Physical & Oceanographic Laboratory
Thrikkakara, Kochi-682021
Phone : 0484-2424878
Fax : 0484-2424858
E-mail ID: director[dot]npol[at]gov[dot]in
Copy to
Director
Directorate of Industry Interface & technology Management (DIITM)
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, DRDO HQrs, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110011
Phone: 011-23013209/23015291
Fax: 011-23793008
Email ID: diitm[dot]hqr[at]gov]dot]in
Page 1 of 2

--- PAGE 2 ---

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI 
a) Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated
as per Indian Companies Act, as amended time to time) 
b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 
c) Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years. 
d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period 
e) Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially  foreign
partners/  shareholders,  foreign  employees,  directors,  etc.  The
company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of India policies and
regulations  on  Foreign  Direct  Investment  (FDI)/DIPP  norms  as
applicable. 
f) Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  
g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 
h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 
i) Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against
of  Ministry  of  Defence  orders,  Public  Sectors  and  Paramilitary
Forces, if any). 
j) Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their
production capacities) and technical expertise.
k) List of Testing and Support equipment’s 
l) ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification 
m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 
n) Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to
accept attendant financial and commercial risks. 
o) Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing
network,  sales  and  service  network,  reliability  to  maintain
confidentiality. 
p) PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high
energy Material, explosives, propellants, and component/ system
dealing with it etc (if applicable). 
q) Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors,
Independent Directors, non-executive Directors, Key management
personnel are involved in any corrupt practices, unfair means and
illegal activities. 
r) Details  of  the  industrials  license  for  defence  manufacturing  be
provided by the industry seeking ToTs.
Page 2 of 2