--- PAGE 1 ---

Small Animal Irradiation Platform
Development of radiation countermeasure agent requires screening of several molecules on
small animals. The irradiation geometry and ability to handle multiple animals is important
and  no  ready-made  solutions  are  available.  In  most  of  the  laboratories,  makeshift
arrangements without much description are published as research papers. Such geometry and
irradiated dose cannot be replicated in other laboratories and therefore true comparison of
lead findings is difficult. Further, irradiation of multiple animals is necessary to reduce time
and variability during experimentation. Development of laboratory animal models mimicking
the actual field conditions is a challenge. Delivering radiation to specific region or organs
that can benefit the understanding of radio-biological effects in human is extremely difficult
and  a major  challenge  in  countermeasure development.  Though, high  precision  targeted
irradiation platforms for single animal are available, they may not be sufficient for screening
of potential countermeasures on large group of small animals in reproducible manner among
multiple facilities or institutions. 
      About the technology
Small  Animal  Irradiation  Platform  has  been  designed  and  developed  by  INMAS  for
performing  localized,  partial  body,  multi-organ  (head,  thoracic,  hind  limbs  and  whole
abdomen),  and  whole body irradiations  to  small  animals (mice,  rats and  rabbit)  against
gamma radiation (Co 60 Tele radiotherapy). This can also be used for other gamma energy
source such as  137Cs and  X-ray irradiators. The shielding designs are optimized to provide
proper protection to organs at risk (95% shielding) from high energy gamma radiation. The
platform  is  provided  with  manual  vertical  movement  for  easy  setups.  A  dosimeter  for
radiation dose estimation is also provided. The animal irradiation using this platform can be
continuously monitored using CCTV device. 
This platform will therefore allow simultaneous localized irradiation of mice or rats or
rabbit and efficacy assessment of therapeutic radiation countermeasures agents.