--- PAGE 1 ---

Untethered Multi-copter 1 payload 05Kg High Payload Multi Copter Platform (HPMP)
Untethered multi-copter 1 (UT1)
System Description: Untethered multi-copter 1 (UT-1) has been configured as quad-copter for
payload of 5kg with onboard battery bank. The frame is made of Carbon composite members
and aluminium joints.
Technical specification and features of the untethered multi-copter1 (UT1)
The  Untethered  Multi-copter1  (UT1)  should  be  capable  of  meeting  the  following
Technical specifications. 
Sr. No. Parameter Specifications
1 Payload Weight 5  Kg  (This  includes  the  release  mechanism  if
required)
2 Altitude of operation 200 m (AGL)
3000 m (MSL)
3 Range of Operation 5 Km 
4 Wind Speed 8.33m/s (30 kmph)
5 Environment Clear weather
6 Endurance 30min
7 Motion Profile a. Take off – reach 5km at altitude of 200m and 
at 5 km do the surveillance for at least 10 min 
and Return to Launch Station/Ground Station
b. Take off- with Payload on 5kg travel to the 
designated location drop the payload and 
return. Altitude at payload drop location will be
assigned before the mission
8 Safety features a. Return to Launch Point if communication is 
lost
b. Return to Launch Point if Battery power goes 
below critical level
c. Return to Launch Point if wind speed is more 
than 8.33m/s (30 kmph)
d. Precision landing on charging platform.
e. Autonomous charging when landed on the 
landing platform.
Untethered multi-copter 1 (UT1)

--- PAGE 2 ---

1. Interested companies/industries are  requested to apply  against this EoI to following
address:-
To,
The Director
Research & Development Establishment (Engineers)
DRDO, Govt. of India, Ministry of Defence,
Kalas, Alandi Road, Dighi P. O., Pune- 411015 India
Phone No: 020-27044000
Email-director.rde@gov.in
Fax No: 020-27044009
2.  A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:-
To, 
The Director,
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM),
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011
Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in
Fax-011-23793008

--- PAGE 3 ---

All industries interested in seeking ToT are requested to apply in the format given below. Kindly
fill in the fields. The list of documents to be attached is provided in Annexure – I. Kindly provide
the reference of page no. of supporting document in the relevant field of form.
P      A      R      T      -      1       
General Information
(Please enclose documents in support of information provided)
1. Name  of  the  Technology  requested  for
Technology  Transfer  (Technology  name  and
concerned Lab, Category)
2. Name of the industry/ organization
3. Complete Address and other details
Registered Office
State
Phone No
Fax
Email
Website
Factory
State
Phone No
Fax
Email
Website
4. Point of Contact 
Name
Designation
Address
Mobile No
Ph No
Email ID
5. NAME OF CMD/ MD /PARTNERS/ PROPRIETOR/
etc 
Name
Designation
Address
Mobile No
Ph No
Email ID
6. Date of Incorporation of company
7. Foreign Direct Investment in company (if any in
%)
8. Shareholding pattern
9. Turn over as per Audited Balance Sheet for the
preceding three years.
Year ____
Year ____
Year ____
10. Annual budget for R&D during last three years (if
any)

--- PAGE 4 ---

Year ____ 
Year ____ 
Year ____
11. Income Tax returns for the preceding three years
period 
Year ____
Year ____ 
Year ____
12. Nature of company
DPSU, Private  Limited, Public  Limited, Partnership,
Proprietary, Ex- Serviceman Unit
13. Category of industry
Large  Scale,  Medium  Scale,  Small  Scale,  Micro,
Startup
14. MSME Registration No
15. Certificates  of  registration  as  a  manufacturing
unit, if any.
16. If Startup, DPIIT Registration No
17. UDYOG AADHAR No
18. PAN Number
19. Details  of  Industrial  license  for  defence
manufacturing issued by DPIIT (if any)
20. Details of PESO license (if any)
21. GST Number
22. Nature of business
Manufacturing/  Sole  Selling  or  Authorized  Agent/
Assembler/  Traders/  Dealer/  Processor/  Repacker/
Others
23. Details of current products and services
Products and services Supplied (please specify Govt/
Domestic market/ Export)
24. Record of past performance
(e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of
Defence  orders,  Public  Sectors  and  Paramilitary
Forces, if any).
25. Details of registration with
NSIC  /  SSI,  DGS&D,  other  Defence  Department,
other  Govt.  Dept,  membership  of
FICCI/ASSOCHAM/CII or other Industrial Association
(Attach relevant copies of registration letters)
26. Have  you  already  taken  any  technology  from
DRDO (If yes, give details attaching separate sheet)
Name of the Technology, Lab, Year, License number
& Status
27. ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  (If
yes, give details)
28. Relevant  clearances  form  the  authorities/
ministries (if any)
29. Capacity  and  capability  to  undertake
developmental  work  and  to  accept  attendant

--- PAGE 5 ---

financial and commercial risks.
30. Capacity/capability to market the product through
the marketing network, sales and service network,
reliability to maintain confidentiality.
P      A      R      T      -      2  
Infrastructure and other Information
1. Total area of factory 
Covered (m2), 
Uncovered (m2),
Bonded space available (m2)
2. Ownership of factory
Self-owned, partnership, rental
3. Electric power
Sanctioned
Installed
Standby (if any)
4. Availability of adequate infrastructure 
(List of machines and their production capacities) and
technical expertise
5. Name of bank & A/c No Name of bank
A/c type
A/c no
Address of the bank 
Phone: 
Email:
6. Details of current products:
S.No Type Description Licensed/installed capacity Annual  production  for
preceding 3 years
7. Details of foreign collaboration, if any
S.No Product Name and address of collaborator Year Remarks
8. Details of products developed for services
S.No Nomenclature of stores Order No. and date Remarks
9. Please give details of important facilities & infrastructure as per following 
format for:
(a) Production
(b) Unconventional, special m/c
(c) Testing & quality control facilities 
S.No Description of m/c Make & model Qty Date of
purchase
Remarks
10. Furnish  the following details with relevant certificates and documents
(a) R&D facilities available :

--- PAGE 6 ---

(b) Inspection quality control of raw material components :
(c) Assistance from central agency for testing / calibration etc. :
(d) laboratory and drawing office facility :
11. Principal  customers:
S. No Name & address S.O  No  and
date
Date  of  last
supply
Products
supplied
Value
12. Future plans (if any) in respect of expansion programme/ installation of 
additional machines/ test facilities etc.
13. Name of the technology requested for transfer
(give self-assessment of your capability to absorb the technology)
14. Details of employee as on date on firm’s pay roll
PERMANENT
Category Post Held Number Qualification Total Service
Technical Prod. Manager
Q.C.  Manager
Supervisor
Testing Staff (QC)
Skilled workers
Unskilled workers, etc
Administrative Purchase Manager
Accounts Officer 
Office Superintendent
Clerical
Others, etc
TEMPORARY
Category Post Held Number Qualification Total Service
Technical Prod. Manager
Q.C.  Manager
Supervisor
Testing Staff (QC)
Skilled workers
Unskilled workers, etc
Administrative Purchase Manager
Accounts Officer 
Office Superintendent
Clerical
Others, etc
D      E      C      L      A      R      A      T      I      O      N      :
I / we confirm that the information furnished in Part 1 & 2 above is  correct. In the
event of any information given by me / us is found incorrect / false at any time, I / we
understand our EoI for ToT will be cancelled/ rejected without notice, beside any other
appropriate action against me / us.
Industry seal         Authorized signatory
Name(s) in capital
Designation and seal of authorized signatory
Date: 
Place:

--- PAGE 7 ---

Annexure – I
List of Support documents to be attached with EoI
(a) Memorandum  and  Articles  of  Association  (Should  be  incorporated  as  per  Indian
Companies Act, as amended time to time)
 (b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.
 (c) Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years. 
(d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period 
(e) Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially  foreign  partners/  shareholders,
foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of
India  policies  and  regulations  on  Foreign  Direct  Investment  (FDI)/DIPP  norms  as
applicable. 
(f) Annual budget for R&D during last three years. 
(g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.
 (h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.
 (i) Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of Defence
orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any). 
(j) Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities)
and technical expertise. 
(k) List of Testing and Support equipment’s
 (l) ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification 
(m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any)
(n) Capacity  and  capability  to  undertake  developmental  work  and  to  accept  attendant
financial and commercial risks. 
(o) Capacity/capability  to  market the  product  through  the  marketing  network,  sales  and
service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.
(p) PESO  and  DPIIT  license  for  explosive  handling  if  ToT is  for  high  energy  Material,
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc. 
(q) Under  taking  form  company  seeking  ToT  that  none  of  its  Directors,  Independent
Directors,  non-executive  Directors,  Key  management  personnel  are  involved  in  any
corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities.
(r) Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by the industry
seeking ToTs.
(s) Application cum Industry Assessment Form.