--- PAGE 1 ---

Page 1 of 9 
DMR-249A Grade Steel Bulb Bars for Naval Applications 
Bulb bars are rolled product from feedstock (either billets or billets cut from semi -rolled 
continuous cast slabs) with an asymmetric cross-section and are used as stiffeners in ship 
construction. Post manufacturing by rolling, bulb bars are heat treated to achieve the 
required properties. Eleven different sections of bulb bars ranging from P6 to P24 (as per 
figure below) have been developed and productionized in length up to 12m. The number 
following P is the base width of the bulb bar section in centimeters  (as per Table below). 
DMRL has worked on heat treatment optimization, straightening, microstructural 
evaluations etc. to meet strict requirements i.e. mechanical properties, dimensional 
tolerances and other criteria. The ToT seeking industry has to develop the roll pass design 
on its own for converting the feedstock to the bulb bars to meet dimensional requirements.  
Bulb bars have been accepted by the competent authority of Indian Navy and a Naval 
Construction Document: NCD 0249 Part -III Issue 1, April 2011 has been issued by 
Directorate of Naval Architecture (DNA), Integrated Headquarters (IHQ), MOD (Navy). 
DMR 249A steel Bulb bars are currently in routine production at approved manufacturers 
for use in construction of warships of Indian Navy.  
 
Salient feature: 
The bulb bars are used as hull stiffeners in construction of naval vessels and platforms by 
Indian navy/Shipyards.  
 
a) 
b) 


--- PAGE 2 ---

Page 2 of 9 
c) 
Figure: (a) Schematic of bulb bar cross -section indicating the main sectional 
parameters, (b) sample piece of bulb bar and (c) relative sizes of the eleven 
sections required 
 
Table: Dimensions of representative bulb bars 
Bulb bar Section h (mm) b (mm) s (mm) r, r1, r2 (mm) 
P7 70 21 5.0 3.5 
P12 120 30 6.5 5.0 
P24a 240 52 12.0 9.0 
P24b 240 54 14.0 9.0 
 
Min facility/Capability required at the time of submission: 
Profile Rolling Mill consisting of:  
• Reheating furnace with high temperature capacity (1250oC)  
• Profile rolling mill and expertise to make asymmetric section rolling  
• Hot/Cold straightening facility  
• Cutting facility  
 
Heat treatment facility of rolled bulb bars consisting of:  
• Austenitization furnace of suitable length and temperature capacity  
• Water quenching facility with agitation  
• Tempering furnace of suitable length and temperature capacity  
 
Testing/Inspection/Acceptance facilities consisting of:  


--- PAGE 3 ---

Page 3 of 9 
• Ultrasonic inspection  
• Surface grinding  
• Chemical analysis, gas content, macro-etching  
• Tensile testing, Sub-zero impact testing  
• Metallography facility  
 
Requirement of Technology Absorption Certificate: 
The bulb bars  of sections P6, P16 & P24  shall be rolled subjected to the following 
acceptance tests and satisfactory compliance of same is necessary for issuance of the 
certificate.  
S.No Acceptance criteria 
1.  Tensile properties  
2.  Microstructure  
3.  Sub-zero impact testing at -60°C  
4.  Ultrasonic examination  
5.  Dimensional inspection & surface quality 
 
Interested Industries are requested to apply against this EoI to following address:- 
  
Director 
Defence Metallurgical Research Laboratory 
Kanchanbagh P.O. 
Hyderabad 500 058 
Phone: (040) 2458 6486, 2434 0365           
E-mail: director[dot]dmrl[at]gov[dot]in 
Fax: (040) 2434 0683  
 
A copy of the interest may be sent to the following address without anyu attachment: 
  
Director 
Directorate of Industry Interface & Quality Management (DIIQM) 
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, DRDO HQrs, 
Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110011 
Phone: 011-23013209/23015291 
Fax: 011-23793008 
Email: director-diiqm-hqr[at]gov[dot]in 
 
All industries are requested to fill in the form given below and provide supporting 
documents (as applicable). Kindly provide the reference of page no. of supporting 
document in the relevant field of form. The list of documents to be attached is provided in 
Annexure – I.  

--- PAGE 4 ---

Page 4 of 9 
PART-1  
General Information 
(Please enclose documents in support of information provided) 
1.  Name of the Technology requested for 
Technology Transfer (Technology name 
and concerned Lab, Category) 
  
2.  Name of the industry/ organization   
3.  Complete Address and other details   
Registered Office 
State 
Phone No 
Fax 
Email 
Website 
  
Factory 
 
State 
Phone No 
Fax 
Email 
Website 
  
4.  Point of Contact  
Name 
Designation 
Address 
Mobile No 
Ph No 
Email ID 
  
5.  NAME OF CMD/ MD /PARTNERS/ 
PROPRIETOR/ etc  
Name 
Designation 
Address 
Mobile No 
Ph No 
Email ID 
  
6.  Date of Incorporation of company   
7.  Foreign Direct Investment in company (if 
any in %) 
  
8.  Shareholding pattern   
9.  Turn over as per Audited Balance Sheet 
for the preceding three years. 
Year ____ 
Year ____ 
Year ____ 
  
10.  Annual budget for R&D during last three 
years (if any) 
Year ____  
Year ____  
  

--- PAGE 5 ---

Page 5 of 9 
Year ____ 
11.  Income Tax returns for the preceding 
three years period  
Year ____ 
Year ____  
Year ____ 
  
12.  Nature of company 
DPSU, Private Limited, Public Limited, 
Partnership, Proprietary, Ex - Serviceman 
Unit 
  
13.  Category of industry 
Large Scale, Medium Scale, Small Scale, 
Micro, Startup 
  
14.  MSME Registration No   
15.  Certificates of registration as a 
manufacturing unit, if any. 
  
16.  If Startup, DPIIT Registration No   
17.  UDYOG AADHAR No   
18.  PAN Number   
19.  Details of Industrial license for defence 
manufacturing issued by DPIIT (if any) 
  
20.  Details of PESO license (if any)   
21.  GST Number   
22.  Nature of business 
Manufacturing/ Sole Selling or Authorized 
Agent/ Assembler/ Traders/ Dealer/ 
Processor/ Repacker/ Others  
  
23.  Details of current products and services 
Products and services Supplied (please 
specify Govt/ Domestic market/ Export)  
  
24.  Record of past performance 
(e.g., Supply orders executed against of 
Ministry of Defence orders, Public Sectors 
and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  
  
25.  Details of registration with 
NSIC / SSI, DGS&D, other Defence 
Department, other Govt. Dept, membership 
of FICCI/ASSOCHAM/CII or other Industrial
 
Association 
(Attach relevant copies of registration 
letters) 
  
26.  Have you already taken any technology 
from DRDO (If yes, give details attaching 
separate sheet)  
 
Name of the Technology, Lab, Year, License 
number & Status 
  
27.  ISO/ ISI certification or any other 
certification (If yes, give details)  
  
28.  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ 
ministries (if any) 
  

--- PAGE 6 ---

Page 6 of 9 
29.  Capacity and capability to undertake 
developmental work and to accept 
attendant financial and commercial risks. 
  
30.  Capacity/capability to market the product 
through the marketing network, sales and 
service network, reliability to maintain 
confidentiality. 
  
 
PART-2 
Infrastructure and other Information 
1.  Total area of factory  
Covered (m2),  
Uncovered (m2), 
Bonded space available (m2) 
 
2.  Ownership of factory 
Self-owned, partnership, rental 
 
3.  Electric power 
Sanctioned 
Installed 
Standby (if any) 
 
4.  Availability of adequate infrastructure  
(List of machines and their production capacities) and 
technical expertise 
 
5.  Name of bank & A/c No Name of bank 
A/c type 
A/c no 
Address of the bank  
Phone:  
Email: 
 
 
6. Details of current products: 
S.No Type Description Licensed/installed capacity Annual production for 
preceding 3 years 
     
      
7. Details of foreign collaboration, if any 
S.No Product Name and address of collaborator Year Remarks 
     
     
 
8. Details of products developed for services 
S.No Nomenclature of stores Order No. and date Remarks 
    
    
 
9. Please give details of important facilities & infrastructure as per 
following format for: 

--- PAGE 7 ---

Page 7 of 9 
(a) Production 
(b) Unconventional, special m/c 
(c) Testing & quality control facilities  
 
S.No Description of m/c Make & model Qty Date of 
purchase 
Remarks 
      
      
 
10. Furnish the following details with relevant certificates and 
documents 
(a) R&D facilities available       : 
(b) Inspection quality control of raw material components  : 
(c) Assistance from central agency for testing / calibration etc. : 
(d) laboratory and drawing office facility     : 
 
11.  Principal  customers: 
S. No Name & address S.O No and 
date 
Date of last 
supply 
Products 
supplied 
Value 
      
      
 
12. Future plans (if any) in respect of expansion programme/ 
installation of additional machines/ test facilities etc. 
 
13. Name of the technology requested for transfer 
(give self-assessment of your capability to absorb the technology) 
 
14. Details  of employee as on date on firm’s pay roll 
PERMANENT 
Category Post Held Number Qualification Total Service 
Technical Prod. Manager 
Q.C. Manager 
Supervisor 
Testing Staff (QC) 
Skilled workers 
Unskilled workers, etc 
   
Administrative Purchase Manager 
Accounts Officer  
Office Superintendent 
Clerical 
Others, etc 
   
 
TEMPORARY 
Category Post Held Number Qualification Total Service 
Technical Prod. Manager 
Q.C. Manager 
Supervisor 
Testing Staff (QC) 
Skilled workers 
   

--- PAGE 8 ---

Page 8 of 9 
Unskilled workers, etc 
Administrative Purchase Manager 
Accounts Officer  
Office Superintendent 
Clerical 
Others, etc 
   
 
 
DECLARATION 
 
I / we confirm that the information furnished in Part 1 & 2 above is correct. In 
the event of any information given by me / us is found incorrect / false at any time, 
I / we understand our EoI for ToT will be cancelled/ rejected without notice, beside 
any other appropriate action against me / us. 
 
Industry seal    Authorized signatory 
Name(s) in capital 
Designation and seal of authorized signatory 
 
Date:  
Place: 
  

--- PAGE 9 ---

Page 9 of 9 
Annexure – I 
List of supporting documents to be attached with EoI: 
 
a. Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian 
Companies Act, as amended time to time) 
b. Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 
c. Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years. 
d. Income Tax returns for the preceding three-year period 
e. Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/ shareholders, 
foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of 
India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as 
applicable. 
f. Annual budget for R&D during last three years. 
g. Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 
h. Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel employed. 
i. Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of 
Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any). 
j. Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities) 
and technical expertise. 
k. List of testing and support equipment. 
l. ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification. 
m. Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any). 
n. Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant 
financial and commercial risks. 
o. Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and 
service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 
p. Industrial license for defence manufacturing issued by DPIIT (if any). 
q. PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material, 
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  
r. Undertaking from company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent 
Directors, non- executive Directors, Key management personnel is involved in any 
corrupt practices, unfair means/ illegal activities.