--- PAGE 1 ---

Page 1 of 3 
 
Ceramic Faced Composite Armour Panels for Advanced Light Helicopter (ALH) 
Introduction 
The Advanced Light Helicopter (ALH) is designed 
and developed by Hindustan Aeronautical Limited 
(HAL), India. Ceramic faced composite armour 
protection panels have been designed and developed 
by DMSRDE for A LH (Army Variant) to provide 
protection to aircrews and critical parts of helicopter 
against 12.7 mm API bullet hits. 
 
Technical Specification of Armour 
Dual hardness panel armours consisting of hard ceramic striking face and aramid/epoxy 
laminates as backing are more efficient than monolithic armors. Ceramic faced 
composite armour panel is significantly efficient in decreasing the penetrability of a 
conical striker. Alumina is one of the most readily available and  cost-effective material 
that has a high level of physical properties , which is used as ceramic face in the 
composites. The ceramic surface being used as impacting surface receives the initial 
impact of the projectile. Its function is to destroy the head o f the projectile progressively 
as it attempts to penetrate the composite structure. A major part of the impact energy is 
dissipated during this first stage. The second stage material is a ductile base  laminate 
made of composite material . It’s main function is to absorb the residual impact energy 
caused by the fragmented parts of the projectile till reaches to complete halt. The 
absorption results in elastic and plastic deformation of the ductile material . The weight 
of dual hardness panel armor is less than armour made only of steel.  
To meet the technical specification requirement , developed a rmour panels were 
subjected to Strength, Environmental, Shock, Vibration, Immersion, Flame resistance, 
Low & high  temperature stability, Spall adhesion and Ballistic tests  for airworthiness 
clearance before induction into the helicopter and found fully capable to provide ballistic 
protection. 
 
Status and Application 
Induction of the developed ceramic faced composite armour panels on army version 
ALH is completed. Carriage and flight trials are conducted & fo und satisfactory.  
Provisional clearance for composite armour panels  for ALH is obtained from RCMA 
(Helicopter). Subsequently, clearance for bulk production of the developed ceramic 
faced composite armour panels is obtained CEMILAC. 

--- PAGE 2 ---

Page 2 of 3 
 
Interested Industries are requested to forward their Expression of Interest (EoI) to 
Director DMSRDE, Kanpur (with attachments of supporting documents) with a copy of 
Director DIITM, DRDO HQ (without attachment) on following address:- 
 
To, 
Director 
Defence Materials and Stores Research & Development Establishment (DMSRDE) 
DRDO, Ministry of Defence, Government of India 
PO DMSRDE, GT Road, 
Kanpur-208013 
Phone : (0512) 2451759-78 
Fax : 0512-2450404/ 2404774 
  
E-mail ID : director[dot]dmsrde[at]gov[dot]in 
 
Copy to 
 
Director 
Directorate of Industry Interface & technology Management (DIITM) 
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, DRDO HQrs, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110011 
Phone: 011-23013209/23015291 
Fax: 011-23793008 
 
Email: diitm[dot]hqr[at]gov]dot]in 
 
List of Support documents to be attached with EoI  
a) Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian 
Companies Act, as amended time to time)  
b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.  
c) Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  
d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  
e) Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especial ly foreign partners/ shareholders, 
foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt 
of India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as 
applicable.  
f) Annual budget for R&D during last three years.   
g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.  
h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.  
i) Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of 
Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  
j) Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production 
capacities) and technical expertise. 
k) List of Testing and Support equipment’s  
l) ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  
m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any)  

--- PAGE 3 ---

Page 3 of 3 
 
n) Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant 
financial and commercial risks.  
o) Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and 
service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.  
p) PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material, 
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc (if applicable).  
q) Under taking form company seeking ToT  that none of its Directors, Independent 
Directors, non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any 
corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities.  
r) Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be  provided by the 
industry seeking ToTs.