--- PAGE 1 ---

Light Weight Thermally Insulating Microwave Absorbing Structures
ASL  Hyderabad  has  developed  a  technology  for  fabrication,  qualification  of
composite  component  having  low  density,  high  insulating  capability  (thermal
conductivity  ~  0.1W/m-k)  with  broadband  microwave  absorbing  properties.
Composite component manufactured using this process is stable up to 330°C. The
primary constituents of these components are silicone resin, ceramic fabric, milled
carbon fibres/chopped carbon fibres.  The said composite, having density between
0.33 to 0.4 g/cc, can also show good structural rigidity required for mechanical
handling, cutting grinding etc.  It can be made in to any shape having moderate
curvature.  This composite act as insulation liner behind airframes. Besides this, it
also provides additional functionality in terms of electromagnetic wave absorbing
performance. Typical Fabrication Process involves realising composite through match
die moulding wet layup process.
Essential Infrastructure requirements:
(i) Large size ovens of the size of minimum 1.5 x 1.5 m x 1 meter (height)
working area.
(ii) Carbon fibre chopping machines.
(iii) Ball milling machines for milling the carbon fibres. 
(iv) Working area with elevated work benches of 2meters x 1.5 meters (min 3 nos.)
(v) Aluminium dies of suitable size (to be custom made as per the component.
Approximately 1.3 meter long with 800mm wide)
(vi) Facilities to handle large size dies which weigh around 500Kgs to 600Kgs
(vii) Weighing balances.
Following infrastructure need to be built (or to be tied up with firms which can
extend the following facilities)
 Frees space material measurement setup to generate Electromagnetic properties
of Materials.
 SEM for measuring the averaging length of the fibres/BET for surface area
measurement
 UTM to generate mechanical property data.
Page 1 of 3

--- PAGE 2 ---

Industry Partner Qualification Criterion: 
(i) Should have minimum 10 years of experience in fabrication and delivery of
Aerospace grade materials with the approvals of MSQAA / CEMILAC.
(ii) Should  have  a minimum  manpower  of  50  employees  with  at  least  5
Engineering graduates or Post graduates in Sciences.
(iii) Should have a minimum yearly turnover of 10 crores in last three consecutive
years.
Interested Industries are requested to forward their Expression of Interest (EoI) to
Director ASL, Hyderabad (with attachments of supporting documents) with a copy of
Director DIITM, DRDO HQ (without attachment) on following address:-
Director
Advanced Systems Laboratory (ASL)
Kanchanbagh P O 
Hyderabad - 500058
Ph.No: 040- 24188400
Fax: 040-24343779
Email: director[dot]asl[at]gov[dot]in
Copy to
Director
Directorate of Industry Interface & technology Management (DIITM)
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, DRDO HQrs, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110011
Phone: 011-23013209/23015291
Fax: 011-23793008
Email: diitm[dot]hqr[at]gov]dot]in
List of Support documents to be attached with EoI 
a) Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per
Indian Companies Act, as amended time to time) 
b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 
c) Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years. 
d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period 
Page 2 of 3

--- PAGE 3 ---

e) Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially  foreign  partners/
shareholders, foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere
to the prevailing Govt of India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct
Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable. 
f) Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  
g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 
h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 
i) Record of past  performance  (e.g., Supply orders executed against  of
Ministry of Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).
j) Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  machines  and  their
production capacities) and technical expertise.
k) List of Testing and Support equipment’s 
l) ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification
m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any)
n) Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept
attendant financial and commercial risks. 
o) Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network,
sales and service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.
p) PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy
Material, explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it
etc (if applicable). 
q) Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors,
Independent Directors, non-executive Directors, Key management personnel
are involved in any corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities.
r) Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by
the industry seeking ToTs.
Page 3 of 3