--- PAGE 1 ---

Annexure-I 
 
 
Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for Fair Use of “DRDO E-Journal Services” 
 
 
The DRDO E-Journal Service came into being w.e.f. 01 January 2009. DRDO EJLS 
consortium facilitates sharing of e -resources and improving access to information. The  resources are 
shared among DRDO libraries that have common missions and goals. DESIDOC is the nodal agency  
that administers and monitors the access/subscriptions on behalf of DRDO Labs. To evaluate the 
DRDO E- Journal Services, a Monitoring Committee has been constituted by DRDO HQrs. 
 
1. AUTHORIZED USERS 
 
a) Persons affiliated with Licensee as employees as decided by lab. 
b) Affiliated third party i.e. Persons affiliated with Licensee as consultants and/or contractors,  
where such use of the Licensed Products is only for the purposes of the contracted work for  
the Licensee. 
c) Persons authorized by licensee and accessing licensed products within the library facilities at  
the sites permitted by the Licensee; and 
d) Such other persons as the Licensor may, at the request of the Licensee and in sole discretion 
of the Licensor, authorized in writing to access the licensed products. 
 
2. PERMISSIBLE USES 
 
Licensee and its authorized users may 
a) Unlimited access, search, browse, download, print and view the licensed products; 
b) Post such articles on the secured internal website of the Licensee as may be reasonable  
required, provided no more than 05 no. of articles per issue of a journal are posted on the  
secure internal website of licensee at a given point of time. 
 
3. RESTRICTIONS ON USES 
 
Subscriber and its authorized users may not: 
a) Remove, obscure or modify in any way any copyright notices, other notices or disclaimers as  
they appear in the subscribed products. 
b) Use any robots, spider, crawlers or other automated downloading programs, a lgorithms or  
devices to continuously and automatically search, scrape, extract, deep link, index or disrupt  
the working of the subscribed products. 
c) Substantially or systematically reproduce, retain or redistribute the subscribed products. 
d) Users will not share the login and password details of remote access service to others. 

--- PAGE 2 ---

e) Users will not redistribute or make available access to the e -journals for any commercial  
purposes. 
f) Since restrictions are different from publisher to publisher, so for more details individual  
publisher’s website needs to be visited. 
 
4. Responsibility of DRDO Labs: 
 
a) If lab wants to include e-journal into “DRDO E-Journal Services” Consortium, first individual 
lab has to subscribe journal/periodical either print or electronic and then justify their 
requirement on utilization basis. 
b) A list of required journals recommended by Library Advisory Committee (LAC) and 
approved by lab Director must be reached before end of March for next year subscription i.e.  
for the subscription year 2021 requirement must be reached by March 2020. 
c) Since labs are demanding e-journals, so utilization of e-journals is the responsibility of 
individual lab only. Each lab has to ensure optimal utilization of resources. 
d) The individual/ lab shall be  responsible for any violation/ infringing of copyright laws or  
misuse of the e-journals/ remote login. 
 
5. WHO CAN ACCESS: Any subscriber lab of DRDO may access e -journals. A list of e - 
journals along with their lab name is available on e-journal website at URL: 
https://drdo.gov.in/e-journals/e-journal-services 
 
6. HOW TO ACCESS E-JOURNALS: 
 
The following are the steps to access e-journals: 
 
a) Kindly visit DRDO website at URL: “https://www.drdo.gov.in/important-links” then scroll 
down to the end of the home page and then click on e-journal option, as it is displayed below. 


--- PAGE 3 ---

b) E-journal website will be opened as following. 
 
 
 
 
c) The website contains the following options – Home, E-Journals, E-Library, List of Publishers, 
Training/Webinars Organized, SOP for Fair Use of E -Journals and Contact Us. List of e -
journals along with their subscriber  labs are listed under E-Resources. User may  click on 
hyperlinks to access desired e-Resources. 
 
7. CONTACT 
 
 
Director 
Defence Scientific Information and Documentation Center (DESIDOC) 
Metcalfe House, Delhi – 110 054, INDIA 
 
Ph. 011 – 2390 2411, 2512/03/11 
Email: director.desidoc@gov.in