--- PAGE 1 ---

Expression of Interest for  
“40mm High Explosive Anti-Personnel (HEAP) Grenade for UBGL” 
Introduction 
1. HEAP Grenade is used with 40mm Under Barrel Grenade Launcher (UBGL) and Multiple 
Grenade Launcher (MGL) in anti-personnel role. The internally notched warhead and adequate 
high explosive content ensure anti -personnel lethality up to 
more than 5m distance from the point of explosion with 
adequate hit density. The grenade is fitted with a reserve 
battery based advanced Point Detonating and Self -
Destruction (PDSD) Fuze.  
The salient features of the grenade are as below: 
a.  Compatible with in -service 40mm UBGL and MGL         
weapons held by Indian Armed Forces including CAPFs 
b. Range: more than 375m 
c. Muzzle Velocity: 76±3 m/s 
d.  Fuze: Electro-mechanical type with self-destruction feature 
 
2. Scope / responsibility / terms & conditions 
I. The firm would be required to realize components, empty and filled sub -systems and system 
integration for production and supply of the grenades to Indian Armed Forces, including 
CAPFs. 
II. The firm will b e required to source the Fuze from DRDO developed supply chain. The firm 
may prefer to source components from DRDO developed sources. 
III. It would be prudent for the firm to support other industries, issued ToT licenses by DRDO, for 
supply of critical componen ts, if any, for establishing a synergized eco -system towards 
attaining complete self-reliance. 
IV. The firm should have valid license for manufacturing and assembly of grenades or 
ammunitions of similar class. 
V. The firm should have PESO license as applicable for handling the explosive sub-systems. 
3. Other requirements 
I. The ToT seeking firm should provide evidence of availability of adequate infrastructure (List 
of machines and their production capacities) and technical expertise. 
II. The firm should have experience o f minimum 05 years in the field of ammunition 
manufacturing. Record of past performance in this regard to be submitted. 
III. The firm should provide Audited Balance Sheet and Income Tax returns for the preceding 
three years. 
IV. The firm should submit undertaking t hat none of its Directors, Independent Directors, non -
executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any corrupt practices, unfair 
means and illegal activities. 
4.  Special Conditions:- 
I. The firm should have in -house manufacturing facility/in digenous source for all the explosive 
components, including but not limited to, Primer and Double Base Propellant. 
 
II. The firm should have experience of minimum 05 years in the field of ammunition manufacturing. 
Record of past performance in this regard to be submitted 
 


--- PAGE 2 ---

 
Contact Details 
Interested companies/industries are requested to apply against this EoI to following address:- 
 
To, 
Director 
Armament Research & Development Establishment (ARDE) 
DRDO, Govt. of India, Ministry of Defence 
Dr. Homi Bhabha Road, Pashan, Armament, Pune -411 021 
Email-director.arde@gov.in 
 
Copy to (without attachement) 
The Director 
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM) 
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011 
Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in 
 
List of Support documents to be attached with EoI 
(a)  Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian Companies 
Act, as amended time to time) 
 (b)  Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 
 (c)  Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  
(d)  Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  
(e)  Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/ shareho lders, foreign 
employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of India policies 
and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.  
(f)  Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  
(g)  Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 
 (h)  Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 
 (i)  Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of Defence 
orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  
(j)  Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities) and 
technical expertise.  
(k)  List of Testing and Support equipment’s 

--- PAGE 3 ---

 (l)  ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  
(m)  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 
(n)  Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant financial 
and commercial risks.  
(o)  Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and  service 
network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 
(p)  PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material, 
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  
(q)  Under taking form company seeking To T that none of its Directors, Independent Directors, 
non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any corrupt practices, 
unfair means and illegal activities. 
(r)  Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be  provided by the industry 
seeking ToTs.