--- PAGE 1 ---

On-Board Electronics Control and Activation Systems with Munition 
Enclosure: Type-  2  
The  On-Board  Electronics  Control  and  Activation  Systems  (OBECAS)  of  Type-2  is  a  UAV
deliverable gravity drop Anti-Personnel 5kg warhead carrying munition. In the default condition,
the  munition  need to  be  integrated  in  power-off  condition  to  dual  umbilical  and  release
mechanism of the UAV. The munition has been divided into three sections of Nose-Cone,
Warhead and Tail section. The munition payload electronics which is part of the tail section
consists of on-board telemetry, processing and detonator firing electronics. It has got dedicated
serial link and RF link to the UAV and utilized to get integrated on-board to carry the command
and response protocol of the munition including its periodic health. 
The Type-2 munition is designed to have four levels of warhead safety features implemented
on-board while the parallel provision is also implemented to monitor different power-on phases
visually  through  the  dual  color  coding  LED  embedded  in  the  tail  section.  This  munition  is
designed for the anti-personnel targets, while after successfully passing through the different
levels of expected events during the release and flight, it is expected to get initiated on impact
as a final event. 
The Type-2 munition consists of following sub-systems:
1. Payload Electronics in aluminum chassis integrated in the tail section 
2. Munition enclosure of  ABS material in three sections
3. Anti-personal warhead ABS sleeve having pre-formed fragments with explosive assembly
4. Rugged Mil-standard box for storage and transport of munition
Interested  companies/industries  are  requested  to  apply  against  this  EoI  to  following
address:-
Director
Terminal Ballistics Research Laboratory
Sector-30
Chandigarh-160030
Phone : 0172-2307100,  2657674
Fax : 0172-2657506
E-Mail : director[dot]tbrl[at]gov[dot]in
A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:- 

--- PAGE 2 ---

The Director,
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM), Room No. 447, 
DRDO Bhawan, 
Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011
Email: diitm[dot]hqr[at]gov[dot]in
Phone No.- 011-23007446 Fax No.-011-23793008
All industries interested in seeking ToT are requested to apply in the format given below. Kindly fill 
in the fields. The list of documents to be attached is provided in Annexure – I. Kindly provide the 
reference of page no. of supporting document in the relevant field of form.
Application cum Industry Assessment Form
PART-      1      
General Information
(Please enclose documents in support of information provided)
1. Name of the Technology requested for Technology 
Transfer (Technology name and concerned Lab, 
Category)
2. Name of the industry/ organization
3. Complete Address and other details
Registered Office
State 
Phone No 
Fax
Email 
Website
Factory 
State 
Phone No 
Fax
Email 
Website
4. Point of Contact
Name 
Designation 
Address
Mobile No 
Ph No 
Email ID
5. NAME OF CMD/ MD /PARTNERS/ PROPRIETOR/
etc
Name 
Designation
Address 

--- PAGE 3 ---

Mobile No 
Ph No 
Email ID
6. Date of Incorporation of company
7. Foreign Direct Investment in company (if any in %)
8. Shareholding pattern
9. Turn over as per Audited Balance Sheet for the 
preceding three years.
Year
Year
Year
10. Annual budget for R&D during last three years (if 
any)
Year
Year
Year
11. Income Tax returns for the preceding three
years period
Year
Year
Year
12. Nature of company
DPSU, Private Limited, Public Limited, Partnership, 
Proprietary, Ex- Serviceman Unit
13. Category of industry
Large Scale, Medium Scale, Small Scale, Micro, 
Startup
14. MSME Registration No
15. Certificates of registration as a manufacturing 
unit, if any.
16. If Startup, DPIIT Registration No
17. UDYOG AADHAR No
18. PAN Number
19. Details of Industrial license for defence 
manufacturing issued by DPIIT (if any)
20. Details of PESO license (if any)
21. GST Number
22. Nature of business
Manufacturing/ Sole Selling or Authorized Agent/ 
Assembler/ Traders/ Dealer/ Processor/ Repacker/ 
Others

--- PAGE 4 ---

23. Details of current products and services
Products and services Supplied (please specify Govt/ 
Domestic market/ Export)
24. Record of past performance
(e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of 
Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary 
Forces, if any).
25. Details of registration with
NSIC / SSI, DGS&D, other Defence Department, other 
Govt. Dept, membership of FICCI/ASSOCHAM/CII or 
other Industrial Association
(Attach relevant copies of registration letters)
26. Have you already taken any technology from 
DRDO (If yes, give details attaching separate sheet)
Name of the Technology, Lab, Year, License number 
& Status
27. ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification (If 
yes, give details)
28. Relevant clearances form the authorities/ 
ministries (if any)
29. Capacity and capability to undertake 
developmental work and to accept attendant 
financial and commercial risks.
30. Capacity/capability to market the product through 
the marketing network, sales and service network, 
reliability to maintain confidentiality.

--- PAGE 5 ---

PART-      2      
Infrastructure and other Information
1. Total area of factory 
Covered (m2), 
Uncovered (m2),
Bonded space available (m2)
2. Ownership of factory
Self-owned, partnership, rental
3. Electric power 
Sanctioned 
Installed 
Standby (if any)
4. Availability of adequate infrastructure
(List of machines and their production capacities) and 
technical expertise
5. Name of bank & A/c No Name of bank
A/c type
A/c no
Address of the bank 
Phone:
Email:
 Details of current products:
S.No Type Description Licensed/installed capacity Annual production for preceding 3
years
 Details of foreign collaboration, if any
S.No Product Name and address of collaborator Year Remarks

--- PAGE 6 ---

 Details of products developed for services
S.No Nomenclature of stores Order No. and date Remarks
 Please  give details of important facilities & infrastructure as per following 
format for:
(a) Production
(b) Unconventional, special m/c
(c) Testing & quality control facilities
 Furnish the following details with relevant certificates and documents
(a) R&D facilities available :
(b) Inspection quality control of raw material components :
(c) Assistance from central agency for testing / calibration etc.:
(d) laboratory and drawing office facility
:
 Principal customers:
S. No Name & address S.O No and 
date
Date of last 
supply
Products 
supplied
Value
 Future plans (if any) in respect of expansion programme/ installation of 
additional machines/ test facilities etc.
 Name of the technology requested for transfer
(give self- assessment of your capability to absorb the technology)
 Details of employee as on date on firm’s pay roll
PERMANENT
Category Post Held Number Qualificatio
n
Total Service
Technical Prod. Manager
Q.C. Manager 
Supervisor 
Testing Staff 
(QC) Skilled 
workers
Unskilled workers, etc
Administrative Purchase Manager 
Accounts Officer 

--- PAGE 7 ---

Office Superintendent
Clerical
Others, etc
TEMPORARY
Category Post Held Number Qualificatio
n
Total Service
Technical Prod. Manager
Q.C. Manager 
Supervisor 
Testing Staff 
(QC) Skilled 
workers
Unskilled workers, etc
Administrative Purchase Manager 
Accounts Officer 
Office 
Superintendent 
Clerical
Others, etc

--- PAGE 8 ---

DECLARATION
I / we confirm that the information furnished in Part 1 & 2 above is correct. In the event
of any information given by me / us is found incorrect / false at any time, I / we understand 
our EoI for ToT  will be cancelled/ rejected without notice, beside any other appropriate 
action against me / us.
Industry seal Authorized signatory 
Name(s) in capital
Designation and seal of authorized signatory
Date: Place:

--- PAGE 9 ---

Annexure-I
List     of     Support documents         to     be         attached     with   EoI      
(a) Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian Companies
Act, as amended time to time)
(b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.
(c) Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.
(d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period
(e) Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/ shareholders, foreign
employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of India policies
and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.
(f) Annual budget for R&D during last three years.
(g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.
(h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.
(i) Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of Defence
orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).
(j) Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities) and
technical expertise.
(k) List of Testing and Support equipment’s
(l) ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification
(m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any)
(n) Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant financial
and commercial risks.
(o) Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and service
network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.
(p) PESO  and  DPIIT  license  for  explosive  handling  if  ToT  is  for  high  energy  Material,
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.
(q) Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent Directors,
non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any corrupt practices,
unfair means and illegal activities.
(r) Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by the industry
seeking ToTs.