--- PAGE 1 ---

Expression of Interest (EoI) for ToT of  Granules for 
Bio-  D  egradable Bags  
1. Description  
Polythene bags/ bottles have become persistent threats to environment. The pollution caused
by all pervasive polythene based packing material is having inadvertent impact on nature.
Plastics and polyethylene takes about 200-300 years to decompose on its own. The efforts to
recycle plastic by collection and segregation are tedious and costly. Keeping in view of ill
effects  of  pervasive  usage  of  plastics  and  polyethylene  bags,  various  options  are  being
researched to replace these hazardous materials. 
In  such  efforts,  DRDO  scientists  have  developed  Granules  for bio-degradable bags  to
replace  single  use  polyethylene  bags.  The  single  use  bags  is  based  on  a  formulation
developed using PBAT starch and food graded additives. DRDO has developed two types of
bags  i.e.  water  soluble  bags  (for  sea  application)  and  water  resistance  bags  (for  land
application).  The  existing  polyethylene  bag  manufactures  can  migrate  to  these  bags
manufacturing with minimum change in plant and machinery. 
The salient features of the Technology/ product are:-
 A alternate to conventional single use plastic.
 Eco friendly, Bio-degradable and Home compostable.
 No harm to animals/ aquatic life by disposal/ consumption.
 Bio-degradable within 60 days.
 Home compostable in 90 days.
 Fully tested and certified.
 Printable in multiple colors based on user requirement.
 Cost effective.
DRDO is willing to transfer the technology to industries for mass production to the benefit of
society and mankind. 
The ToT seeking Indian  industries shall comply following criteria/ requirements:-
(a) Capability to absorb the technology and have capacity to produce the granules and bring
in the market within a shortest possible time.
(b) Fulfillment of all regulatory requirements for manufacturing, QA/ QC etc.
(c) Not under any ban by Govt of India/ Any state Govt/ UT or any Govt Agency.
(d) Not be under insolvency resolution.
(e) In-house R&D facilities.
2. ToT     Fees  
‘Nil’  ToT Fee  to be paid  by industry to DRDO  for entering into Licensing Agreement for
Transfer of Technology (LAToT). 

--- PAGE 2 ---

3. EOI Submission     Date  
Industry may apply for EoI before 30th June 2022 . The EoI is to be submitted by email only.
The EoI submitted by industries will be scrutinised by a Technical Assessment Committee
(TAC)  constituted  by  DRDO.  Technically  qualified  company(ies)  by  TAC  based  on  their
capability and capacity to absorb technology will be given ToT on “ First Come First Served
Basis”.
4. Contact     Details  
Interested companies are requested to apply against this EoI through email to following:-
To 
Director
Advanced Systems Laboratory
Defence Research & Development Organisation
Govt. Of India, Ministry of Defence
Kanchanbagh P O, Hyderabad - 500058
Email : director[at]asl[dot]drdo[dot]in
Copy to (for information)
The Director
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM)
R No 447, DRDO Bhawan, DRDO HQrs,
Rajaji Marg, New Delhi -110011
Email : diitm[at]hqr[dot]drdo[dot]in 
tot[at]hqr[dot]drdo[dot]in
5. Documents to be submitted with     EoI  
The industry (including DPIIT, Govt of India approved Startup) may express their interest for
subject ToT.  Industries must provide details about company and documents in support of their
claim as per Appendix- A. In case any document is not enclosed with EOI, justification to be
provided at relevant place. Any additional documents if required by DRDO shall be sought
from the interested industries.
6. Other Terms and     Conditions  
The other terms and conditions for industry seeking ToT are the following:-
(a) DRDO reserves the right to reject any offer or proposal without assigning any reasons.
(b) Submission of EOI does not guarantee ToT to applicant industry.
(c) A committee of experts constituted by DRDO may visit the company’s manufacturing
site(s)  and  facilities  for  assessing  the  strengths  and  capacity  as  furnished  by  the
respective company before shortlisting for ToT.
(d) Industry may obtain necessary permission/ License/ approval from the suitable authority
for any application/ usage of Granules as per the rules/ processes of Govt of India in
vogue after successful ToT.

--- PAGE 3 ---

Appendix-A
List of support documents to be attached with EOI
(a) Memorandum  and  Articles  of  Association  (Should  be  incorporated  as  per  Indian
Companies Act, as amended time to time)
(b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.
(c) Audited Balance Sheet, turnover and net worth of the company for the preceding three
years.
(d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period
(e) Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially  foreign  partners/  shareholders,
foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of India
policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.
(f) Annual budget (if any) for R&D during last three years.
(g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.
(h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.
(i) Record of past performance (e.g. Supply orders executed against for Ministry of Defence , 
Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).
(j) Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities) 
and technical expertise to manufacture. 
(k) List of Testing and Support equipments for manufacturing. 
(l) ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification (if any).
(m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any).
(n) Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant financial
and commercial risks.
(o) Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and service
network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.
(p) Under taking from company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent Directors,
non-executive Directors, and Key  management personnel are involved  in  any corrupt
practices, unfair means and illegal activities.
(q) Under taking from Company seeking ToT in respect of Para 1 (g) and Para 1(h) of EoI.