--- PAGE 1 ---

 Composite Ball Valve (6" and 4") for Naval application
Use of polymer matrix composites for secondary naval items such as valves, pipes is
increasing in our naval vessels due to weight, cost and signature reduction. A large
number of flow control valves of different types and size are used inside the marine
vessels. One of the common types of valve is ball valve. These valves in marine vessels
are  conventionally  made  of  metals  and  alloys  such  as  bronze,  aluminum-bronze.  To
address the corrosion issue of metallic valves, DRDO has developed 4" and 6 " composite
valves which can be used as a substitute of metallic valves presently being used in naval
ships and submarines. All the laboratory testing including hydrostatic, shock and vibration
testing as per naval standard were successfully completed. The fitment and performance
trial of 6 inch ball valves also completed successfully at 4 bar hydrostatic pressure under
continuous operation at Naval Dockyard, Mumbai and certificate was issued by Indian
Navy.
Salient Features:
Standard Dimension • 6" and 4" (ID)
Weight • 48 kg for 6" and 36 kg for 4"
Construction • Chopped carbon and Glass fiber based FRP composite for ball and
body and Hastelloy for Stem and nut and bolts
(a) 6" Composite ball valve (b) 4" Composite ball valve
Properties :
 Superior corrosion resistance
 >60% weight saving compared to metallic valve
 Excellent strength to weight ratio
 Low thermal conductivity
 Long service life 
 Easy installation and maintenance 
 Resistance to marine organisms
Applications : Ship, Submarines, Fire fighting lines and other marine platforms
 Min. Facility/Capability required at the time of submission: Compression moulding
using dough moulding compound (DMC)

--- PAGE 2 ---

Interested companies/industries are requested to apply against this EoI to following
address:-
Director
Naval Materials Research Laboratory
PO Anand Nagar
Ambernath (East)-421506
Phone : 0251-2623131
Fax : 0251-2623004
E-mail ID : director[dot]nmrl[at]gov[dot]in
A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:- 
The Director,
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM), Room 
No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, 
Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011
Email: diitm[dot]hqr[at]gov[dot]in
Phone No.- 011-23007446 Fax No.-011-23793008
All industries interested in seeking ToT are requested to apply in the format given below. 
Kindly fill in the fields. The list of documents to be attached is provided in Annexure – I. 
Kindly provide the reference of page no. of supporting document in the relevant field of 
form.
Application cum Industry Assessment Form
PART-      1      
General Information
(Please enclose documents in support of information provided)
1. Name of the Technology requested for Technology
Transfer  (Technology  name  and  concerned  Lab,
Category)
2. Name of the industry/ organization
3. Complete Address and other details
Registered Office
State
Phone No
Fax
Email
Website
Factory
State
Phone No
Fax

--- PAGE 3 ---

Email
Website
4. Point of Contact
Name
Designation
Address
Mobile  No
Ph  No
Email ID
5. NAME OF CMD/ MD /PARTNERS/ PROPRIETOR/
etc
Name
Designation
Address
Mobile  No
Ph  No
Email ID
6. Date of Incorporation of company
7. Foreign Direct Investment in company (if any in %)
8. Shareholding pattern
9. Turn over as per Audited Balance Sheet for the
preceding three years.
Year
Year
Year
10. Annual budget for R&D during last three years (if
any)
Year
Year
Year
11. Income Tax returns for the preceding three
years period
Year
Year
Year
12. Nature of company
DPSU,  Private  Limited,  Public  Limited,  Partnership,
Proprietary, Ex- Serviceman Unit
13. Category of industry
Large  Scale,  Medium  Scale,  Small  Scale,  Micro,
Startup
14. MSME Registration No
15. Certificates of registration as a manufacturing
unit, if any.
16. If Startup, DPIIT Registration No
17. UDYOG AADHAR No
18. PAN Number

--- PAGE 4 ---

19. Details of Industrial license for defence
manufacturing issued by DPIIT (if any)
20. Details of PESO license (if any)
21. GST Number
22. Nature of business
Manufacturing/  Sole  Selling  or  Authorized  Agent/
Assembler/  Traders/  Dealer/  Processor/  Repacker/
Others
23. Details of current products and services
Products  and  services  Supplied  (please  specify  Govt/
Domestic market/ Export)
24. Record of past performance
(e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of
Defence  orders,  Public  Sectors  and  Paramilitary
Forces, if any).
25. Details of registration with
NSIC / SSI, DGS&D, other Defence Department, other
Govt.  Dept,  membership  of  FICCI/ASSOCHAM/CII  or
other Industrial Association
(Attach relevant copies of registration letters)
26. Have  you  already  taken  any  technology  from
DRDO (If yes, give details attaching separate sheet)
Name of the Technology, Lab, Year, License number
& Status
27. ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  (If
yes, give details)
28. Relevant clearances form the authorities/
ministries (if any)
29. Capacity  and  capability  to  undertake
developmental work and to accept attendant
financial and commercial risks.
30. Capacity/capability to market the product through
the marketing network, sales and service network,
reliability to maintain confidentiality.

--- PAGE 5 ---

PART-      2      
Infrastructure and other Information
1. Total area of factory
Covered  (m 2),
Uncovered (m2),
Bonded space available (m2)
2. Ownership of factory
Self-owned, partnership, rental
3. Electric  power
Sanctioned
Installed
Standby (if any)
4. Availability of adequate infrastructure
(List of machines and their production capacities) and
technical expertise
5. Name of bank & A/c No Name of bank
A/c type
A/c no
Address of the bank
Phone:
Email:
 Details of current products:
S.No Type Description Licensed/installed capacity Annual production for preceding 3
years
 Details of foreign collaboration, if any
S.No Product Name and address of collaborator Year Remarks
 Details of products developed for services
S.No Nomenclature of stores Order No. and date Remarks

--- PAGE 6 ---

 Please  give details of important facilities & infrastructure as per following 
format for:
(a) Production
(b) Unconventional, special m/c
(c) Testing & quality control facilities
 Furnish the following details with relevant certificates and documents
(a) R&D facilities available :
(b) Inspection quality control of raw material components :
(c) Assistance from central agency for testing / calibration etc.:
(d) laboratory and drawing office facility
:
 Principal customers:
S. No Name & address S.O No and
date
Date of last
supply
Products
supplied
Value
 Future plans (if any) in respect of expansion programme/ installation of 
additional machines/ test facilities etc.
 Name of the technology requested for transfer
(give self- assessment of your capability to absorb the technology)
 Details of employee as on date on firm’s pay roll
PERMANENT
Category Post Held Number Qualificatio
n
Total Service
Technical Prod. Manager
Q.C.  Manager
Supervisor
Testing Staff
(QC)  Skilled
workers
Unskilled workers, etc
Administrative Purchase  Manager
Accounts  Officer
Office Superintendent
Clerical
Others, etc

--- PAGE 7 ---

TEMPORARY
Category Post Held Number Qualificatio
n
Total Service
Technical Prod. Manager
Q.C.  Manager
Supervisor
Testing Staff
(QC)  Skilled
workers
Unskilled workers, etc
Administrative Purchase  Manager
Accounts  Officer
Office
Superintendent
Clerical
Others, etc

--- PAGE 8 ---

DECLARATION
I / we confirm that the information furnished in Part 1 & 2 above is correct. In the event
of any information given by me / us is found incorrect / false at any time, I / we understand
our EoI for ToT  will be cancelled/ rejected without notice, beside any other appropriate
action against me / us.
Industry seal Authorized  signatory
Name(s) in capital
Designation and seal of authorized signatory
Date: Place:

--- PAGE 9 ---

Annexure-I
List     of     Support documents         to     be         attached     with   EoI      
(a) Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian Companies
Act, as amended time to time)
(b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.
(c) Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.
(d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period
(e) Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/ shareholders, foreign
employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of India policies
and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.
(f) Annual budget for R&D during last three years.
(g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.
(h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.
(i) Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of Defence
orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).
(j) Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities) and
technical expertise.
(k) List of Testing and Support equipment’s
(l) ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification
(m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any)
(n) Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant financial
and commercial risks.
(o) Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and service
network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.
(p) PESO  and  DPIIT  license  for  explosive  handling  if  ToT  is  for  high  energy  Material,
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.
(q) Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent Directors,
non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any corrupt practices,
unfair means and illegal activities.
(r) Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by the industry
seeking ToTs.