--- PAGE 1 ---

           Canopy Severance System (CSS)
Canopy Severance System (CSS) is part of the pilot’s escape aid system in aircraft. It is
designed to rescue the pilot in shortest possible time during in-flight and on-ground
emergencies in combat aircrafts. The development is based on ejection through Canopy
Severance  System  instead  of  Canopy  Jettisoning  method,  which  has  a  major
shortcoming of consuming vital time required for safe escape ejection of pilots from
endangered aircraft.  
Dual In-flight Egress system is operated by the pilot in case of emergencies occurring
while the aircraft is in flight. In the other systems, during emergency, when the pilot
pulled the Seat Ejection handle, the series of operations, entailed more than 1400
milliseconds. By the use of Canopy Severance System, the time to sever the Canopy is
reduced to merely 20 milliseconds, thus giving a clean cut on the canopy, providing a
safe passage to the Pilot and the Seat to eject safely. A portion of gas pressure is
tapped from the Seat Ejection initiation gas pressure which is fed into the Pressure
Actuated Initiator (PAI). Thus PAI is actuated and a detonation wave is developed which
travels  through  Explosive  Transfer  Lines  (ETLs), Junction  Boxes  and  finally  to  the
Shaped Miniature Detonating Cord which cuts the Acrylic bubble of the Canopy linearly
near the centre line and thus weakens it. The pieces of the weakened acrylic will be
thrown away by the movement of the seat. This will provide the path through which seat
and pilot can eject safely.
Technologies Involved
The following technologies are involved
 Controlled propagation of detonation wave. 
 Preparation of explosive cord.
 Testing & Proof Methodology of explosive systems.
 Cutting of target material using optimized explosive charges.
 Mfg technologies for explosive lines & hardware.   

--- PAGE 2 ---

1. Interested  companies/industries  are  requested  to  apply  against  this  EoI  to
following address:-
To,
The Director
Armament Research & Development Establishment (ARDE),
Dr. Homi Bhabha Road, Pashan, Pune-411021
Email-director.arde@gov.in
Phone No: 020-25932001
Fax No: 020-25865102
2.  A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:-
Copy to:- 
To,
The Director
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM)
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011
Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in
Phone No. 011-23007446
Fax No. 23793008
All industries interested in seeking ToT are requested to apply in the format given below
along with supporting documents (as applicable). Kindly provide reference of page no.
of supporting document in the relevant field also. The list of documents to be attached is
provided in Annexure - I. 
PART-1
General Information 
1. Name of the Technology requested for Technology Transfer
(Technology name and concerned Lab, Category)
2. Name of the industry/ organization
3. Complete Address and other details
Registered Office

--- PAGE 3 ---

State
Phone No
Fax
Email
Website
Factory
State
Phone No
Fax
Email
Website
4. Point of Contact
Name
Designation
Address
Mobile No
Ph No
Email ID
5. NAME OF CMD/ MD /PARTNERS/ PROPRIETOR/ etc
Name
Designation
Address
Mobile No
Ph No
Email ID
6. Date of Incorporation of company
7. Foreign Direct Investment in company (if any in %)
8. Shareholding pattern
9. Turn over as per Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding 
three years.
Year ____
Year ____
Year ____
10. Annual budget for R&D during last three years
(if any)
Year ____
Year ____
Year ____
11. Income Tax returns for the preceding three years period
Year ____
Year ____
Year ____
12. Nature of company

--- PAGE 4 ---

DPSU, Private Limited, Public Limited, Partnership, Proprietary, 
Ex- Serviceman Unit
13. Category of industry
Large Scale, Medium Scale, Small Scale, Micro, Startup
14. MSME Registration No
15. Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.
16. If Startup, DPIIT Registration No
17. UDYOG AADHAR No
18. PAN Number
19. Details of Industrial license for defence manufacturing 
issued by DPIIT (if any)
20. Details of PESO license (if any)
21. GST Number
22. Nature of business
Manufacturing/ Sole Selling or Authorized Agent/ Assembler/ 
Traders/ Dealer/ Processor/ Repacker/ Others
23. Details of current products and services
Products and services Supplied (please specify Govt/ Domestic 
market/ Export)
24. Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed 
against of Ministry of Defence orders, Public Sectors and 
Paramilitary Forces, if any).
25. Details of registration with
NSIC / SSI, DGS&D, other Defence Department, other Govt. 
Dept, membership of FICCI/ASSOCHAM/CII or other Industrial 
Association
(Attach relevant copies of registration letters)
26. Have you already taken any technology from DRDO (If yes, 
give details attaching separate sheet)
Name of the Technology, Lab, Year, License number & Status
27. ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification (If yes, give 
details)
28. Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any)
29. Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work 
and to accept attendant financial and commercial risks.
30. Capacity/capability to market the product through the 
marketing network, sales and service network, reliability to 
maintain confidentiality.
PART-2
Infrastructure and other Information

--- PAGE 5 ---

 Total area of factory
Covered (m2),
Uncovered (m2),
Bonded space available (m2)
 Ownership of factory
Self-owned, partnership, rental
 Electric power
Sanctioned
Installed
Standby (if any)
 Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of 
machines and their production capacities) and 
technical expertise
 Name of bank & A/c No
Name of bank
A/c type
A/c no
Address of the bank
Phone: Email:
Details of current products:
Sl.no
.
Type Description Licensed/installed 
capacity
Annual production 
for preceding 3 years
Details of foreign collaboration, if any
Sl.no
.
Product Name & address of collaborator Year Remarks
Details of products developed for services
Sl.no
.
Nomenclature of stores Order no and date Remarks
Please give details of important facilities & infrastructure as per following format 
for:
a)Production
b)Unconventional, special m/c
c)Testing & quality control facilities
Sl.no
.
Description of 
m/c
Make & 
model
Qty date of    
purchase
Remarks
Furnish the following details with relevant certificates and documents

--- PAGE 6 ---

a)  R&D facilities available :
b)  Inspection quality control of raw material components :    
c)  Assistance from central agency for testing / calibration etc. :
d)  laboratory and drawing office facility :
Principal customers:
Sl.no
.
Name & address S.O No. & 
date
Date of last 
supply
Products 
supplied
Value
Future plan (if any) in respect of expansion programme installation of additional 
machines/ test facilities etc.
Name of the technology requested for transfer (give self-assessment of your 
capability to absorb the technology)   
Details of employee as on date on firm’s pay roll 
PERMANENT
Category Post Held Number Qualification Total 
Service
Technical Prod. Manager
Q.C. Manager Supervisor
Testing Staff (Qc) Skilled 
workers
Unskilled workers, etc.
Administrative Purchase Manager 
Accounts Officer Office 
Superintendent Clerical 
Others etc
TEMPORARY
Category Post Held Number Qualification Total 
Service
Technical Prod. Manager
Q.C. Manager 
Supervisor
Testing Staff (Qc) 
Skilled workers
Unskilled workers, etc
Administrative Purchase Manager 
Accounts Officer Office
Superintendent Clerical
Others, etc
DECLARATION :
I / we confirm that the information furnished in Part 1 & 2 above is correct. In the 
event of any information given by me / us is found incorrect / false at any time, I / we 

--- PAGE 7 ---

understand our EoI for ToT will be cancelled/ rejected without notice, beside any other 
appropriate action against me / us.
Industry seal Authorized signatory
Name(s) in capital
designation and seal of authorized 
signatory
dated:
Place:
Annexure - I
List of Support documents to be attached with EoI
(a) Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian
Companies Act, as amended time to time)
(b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.
(c) Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years. 
(d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period 
(e) Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially  foreign  partners/
shareholders, foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to
the prevailing Govt of India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment
(FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable. 
(f) Annual budget for R&D during last three years. 
(g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.
(h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.
(i) Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of
Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any). 
(j) Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  machines  and  their  production
capacities) and technical expertise. 
(k) List of Testing and Support equipment’s
(l) ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification 
(m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any)
(n) Capacity  and  capability  to  undertake  developmental  work  and  to  accept
attendant financial and commercial risks. 
(o) Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales
and service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.

--- PAGE 8 ---

(p) PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material,
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc. 
(q) Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent
Directors, non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in
any corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities.
(r) Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by the
industry seeking ToTs.