--- PAGE 1 ---

 
 
Embossed Canister Assembly 
 
 Research & Development Establishment (Engineers), Pune  under Defence R& D 
Organisation Invites Expression of Interest (EOI) from Indian industries having sufficient 
experience, expertise and willing to undertake Manufacturing, Integration, Testing and Supply of 
Embossed Canister Assembly.  
 
BRIEF DESCRIPTION: 
 The Canister Ass embly is required to support and house the articles during 
Transportation, Articulation, Launching and Handling. The Canister Assembly would be used for 
launching of Article in Canisterised, Hot Launch mode from an inclined firing position.  
 
 The Canister serves both as a launch platform and as an environment protection container 
for article. All articles are stored in a ready -to- fire configuration, enabling instantaneous firing of 
any one of them, directly from their canisters, in fully automatic, compute r controlled operational 
sequence.  
 
TECHNICAL DETAILS & SALIENT FEATURES: 
 
 R&DE (E), Pune has designed and developed a simplified and fast manufacturing 
technique for the canister assembly. A square shaped sheet metal embossed canister is required 
to hou se the article during its loading, transportation, articulation and handling. It is a hollow, 
square cross sectional structure, internally pressurized system to store as well as hold the article 
during articulation and transportation. The canister is to be  manufactured using sheet metal 
which is embossed to increase the stiffness and strength of the canister, initially the sheet metal 
is embossed using a high  die punch on a Hydraulic press . The other components are guiderail 
article lugs, and pads for wing rails mounting on both sides of canister vertical wall. The Canister 
is provided with spring loaded pyro based automatic hatch opening mechanism at front and rear 
of the canister. The Canister is also provided with umbilical mechanism, electromechanical based 
automatic article front shoe locking mechanism, miss ile rear stopper and Canister locking 
mechanisms on Launch beam. All the openings and mechanism are covered by sheet metal 
covers and sealed for maintaining internal pressure.  
 
This technology is ready with us to transfer to any Indian Industry for supply of Canister 
Assembly to Indian Army.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 2 ---

.  1. Interested companies/industries are requested to apply against this EoI to following 
address:- 
 
To, 
The Director 
Research & Development Establishment (Engineers) 
DRDO, Govt. of India, Ministry of Defence, 
Kalas, Alandi Road, Dighi P. O., Pune- 411015, India 
Phone No: 020-27044002/4012 
Email-director.rde@gov.in 
Fax No: 020-27044009 
 
2.  A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:- 
 
To,  
The Director, 
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM), 
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011 
Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in 
Fax-011-23793008 
Ph:011-23007446 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 3 ---

 
All industries interested in seeking ToT are requested to apply in the format given below. Kindly 
fill in the fields. The list of documents to be attached is provided in Annexure – I. Kindly provide 
the reference of page no. of supporting document in the relevant field of form. 
PART-1  
General Information 
(Please enclose documents in support of information provided) 
1.  Name of the Technology requested for 
Technology Transfer (Technology name and 
concerned Lab, Category) 
 
2.  Name of the industry/ organization  
3.  Complete Address and other details  
Registered Office 
State 
Phone No 
Fax 
Email 
Website 
 
Factory 
State 
Phone No 
Fax 
Email 
Website 
 
4.  Point of Contact  
Name 
Designation 
Address 
Mobile No 
Ph No 
Email ID 
 
5.  NAME OF CMD/ MD /PARTNERS/ 
PROPRIETOR/ etc  
Name 
Designation 
Address 
Mobile No 
Ph No 
Email ID 
 
6.  Date of Incorporation of company  
7.  Foreign Direct Investment in company (if any 
in %) 
 
8.  Shareholding pattern  
9.  Turn over as per Audited Balance Sheet for 
the preceding three years. 
Year ____ 
Year ____ 
Year ____ 
 
10.  Annual budget for R&D during last three 
years (if any) 
 

--- PAGE 4 ---

Year ____  
Year ____  
Year ____ 
11.  Income Tax returns for the preceding three 
years period  
Year ____ 
Year ____  
Year ____ 
 
12.  Nature of company 
DPSU, Private Limited, Public Limited, 
Partnership, Proprietary, Ex - Serviceman Unit  
 
13.  Category of industry 
Large Scale, Medium Scale, Small Scale, Micro, 
Startup 
 
14.  MSME Registration No  
15.  Certificates of registration as a 
manufacturing unit, if any. 
 
16.  If Startup, DPIIT Registration No  
17.  UDYOG AADHAR No  
18.  PAN Number  
19.  Details of Industrial license for defence 
manufacturing issued by DPIIT (if any) 
 
20.  Details of PESO license (if any)  
21.  GST Number  
22.  Nature of business 
Manufacturing/ Sole Selling or Authorized Agent/ 
Assembler/ Traders/ Dealer/ Processor/ 
Repacker/ Others  
 
23.  Details of current products and services 
Products and services Supplied (please specify 
Govt/ Domestic market/ Export)  
 
24.  Record of past performance 
(e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry 
of Defence orders, Public Sectors and 
Paramilitary Forces, if any).  
 
25.  Details of registration with 
NSIC / SSI, DGS&D, other Defence Department, 
other Govt. Dept, membership of 
FICCI/ASSOCHAM/CII or other Industrial 
Association 
(Attach relevant copies of registration letters) 
 
26.  Have you already taken any technology from 
DRDO (If yes, give details attaching separate 
sheet) 
 
Name of the Technology, Lab, Year, License 
number & Status  
 
27.  ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification 
(If yes, give details)  
 
28.  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ 
ministries (if any) 
 
29.  Capacity and capability to undertake 
developmental work and to accept attendant 
 

--- PAGE 5 ---

financial and commercial risks. 
30.  Capacity/capability to market the product 
through the marketing network, sales and 
service network, reliability to maintain 
confidentiality. 
 
 
PART-2 
Infrastructure and other Information 
1.  Total area of factory  
Covered (m2),  
Uncovered (m2), 
Bonded space available (m2) 
 
2.  Ownership of factory 
Self-owned, partnership, rental 
 
3.  Electric power 
Sanctioned 
Installed 
Standby (if any) 
 
4.  Availability of adequate infrastructure  
(List of machines and their production capacities) and 
technical expertise 
 
5.  Name of bank & A/c No Name of bank 
A/c type 
A/c no 
Address of the bank  
Phone:  
Email: 
 
 
6. Details of current products: 
S.No Type Description Licensed/installed capacity Annual production for preceding 3 
years 
     
      
7. Details of foreign collaboration, if any 
S.No Product Name and address of collaborator Year Remarks 
     
     
 
8. Details of products developed for services 
S.No Nomenclature of stores Order No. and date Remarks 
    
    
 
9. Please give details of important facilities & infrastructure as per following 
format for: 
(a) Production 
(b) Unconventional, special m/c 

--- PAGE 6 ---

(c) Testing & quality control facilities  
S.No Description of m/c Make & model Qty Date of 
purchase 
Remarks 
      
      
 
10. Furnish  the following details with relevant certificates and documents 
(a) R&D facilities available       : 
(b) Inspection quality control of raw material components  : 
(c) Assistance from central agency for testing / calibration etc. : 
(d) laboratory and drawing office facility     : 
11.  Principal  customers: 
S. No Name & address S.O No and 
date 
Date of last 
supply 
Products 
supplied 
Value 
      
      
 
12. Future plans (if any) in respect of expansion programme/ installation of 
additional machines/ test facilities etc. 
13. Name of the technology requested for transfer 
(give self-assessment of your capability to absorb the technology) 
 
14. Details of employee as on date on firm’s pay roll 
PERMANENT 
Category Post Held Number Qualification Total Service 
Technical Prod. Manager 
Q.C. Manager 
Supervisor 
Testing Staff (QC) 
Skilled workers 
Unskilled workers, etc 
   
Administrative Purchase Manager 
Accounts Officer  
Office Superintendent 
Clerical 
Others, etc 
   
 
TEMPORARY 
Category Post Held Number Qualification Total Service 
Technical Prod. Manager 
Q.C. Manager 
Supervisor 
Testing Staff (QC) 
Skilled workers 
Unskilled workers, etc 
   
Administrative Purchase Manager 
Accounts Officer  
Office Superintendent 
Clerical 
Others, etc 
   
 
 

--- PAGE 7 ---

DECLARATION: 
I / we confirm that the information furnished in Part 1 & 2 above is correct. In the 
event of any information given by me / us is found incorrect / false at any time, I / we 
understand our EoI for ToT will be cancelled/ rejected without notice, beside any other 
appropriate action against me / us. 
 
Industry seal           Authorized signatory 
Name(s) in capital 
Designation and seal of authorized signatory 
 
Date:   
Place: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annexure – I 
 

--- PAGE 8 ---

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI 
(a)  Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian 
Companies Act, as amended time to time) 
 (b)  Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 
 (c)  Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  
(d)  Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  
(e)  Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/ shareholders, 
foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of 
India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as 
applicable.  
(f)  Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  
(g)  Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 
 (h)  Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 
 (i)  Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of Defence 
orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  
(j)  Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities) 
and technical expertise.  
(k)  List of Testing and Support equipment’s 
 (l)  ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  
(m)  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 
(n)  Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant financial 
and commercial risks.  
(o)  Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and 
service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 
(p)  PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material, 
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  
(q)  Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent Directors, 
non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any corrupt 
practices, unfair means and illegal activities. 
(r)  Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by the industry 
seeking ToTs. 
(s)  Application cum Industry Assessment Form