--- PAGE 1 ---

 
Expression of Interest 
TOT OF WET END SUB-SYSTEM FOR ADVANCED LIGHT TOWED ARRAY SONAR (ALTAS) 
1. Introduction 
 
NPOL, Kochi, a premier laboratory under Defence R&D Organisation invites 
Expression of Interest (EOI) from Indian manufacturer(s) having sufficient experience, 
expertise and willingness to undertake Production of WET END SUB-SYSTEM for an 
Advanced Light Towed Array Sonar (ALTAS) 
 
Schematic of ALTAS System 
 
The Wet End Sub-System consists of Transmitter and Receiver Arrays and Tow Cable 
assembly. The Transmitter Array is housed in a Vertically stabilised body and is 
hooked on to the seamless Tow Cable with lin ear receiver Array. Technical 
specifications are enclosed at annexure 1 
 
 
 
Tow Cable Assy 
Receiver Array 
Transmitter Array 
Launch/Recovery Unit 
On-board Electronics 

--- PAGE 2 ---

2. RESPONSIBILITIES OF MANUFACTURER OF WET END SUB-SYSTEM   
 
ALTAS is a multidisciplinary sonar system consisting of technologies of transducers, 
mechanical engineering, ocean engineering, electrical and electronics engineering, 
power electronics and software. Realisation of the entire sonar system under one roof 
may not be practical because of the diversity of technologies, know -how and skill set 
required. And hence the hardware content of the sonar has b een realised as 
subsystems through specialised Indian industries and integrated as ALTAS sonar 
system by incorporating dedicated software developed by NPOL. The responsibility of 
its installation onboard a naval ship and the role of lead system integrator was 
undertaken by NPOL. The performance validation of the system was done under the 
leadership of  NPOL and with the association of Indian Navy through a series of 
structured sea trials with real targets deployed at strategic locations. Performance 
validation has since been completed, the Indian Navy will shortly evaluate the system 
as per mutually agreed trial plan and procedure.  Indian Navy has plans to induct a 
few ALTAS sonar systems for its front line war ships soon after evaluation trials. The 
purpose of this EOI is to identify one / two potential Manufacturer for ALTAS WET 
END SUB -SYSTEM.    Responsibilities of Sub-system manufacturer of ‘WET END 
SUB-SYSTEM’ is further elaborated in the succeeding sections. 
 
2.1 Supply  of Sub -system to Lead System Integrator (LSI) nominated by Indian 
Navy/NPOL 
a. Supply order will be placed on the manufacturer by a  LSI nominated by Indian 
Navy/NPOL. 
b. Manufacturer will supply the WET END SUB-SYSTEM’ as per TOT Documents. 
Detailed Specifications, Quality policy / program for component level to sub-system 
level, ATP, FAT’s, HAT’s and SAT’s documents and  BOM will be provided in the 
TOT documents. 
c. The manufacturer will field sub- system against RFP from LSI by submitting 
Technical, commercial and price bids appropriately. 
 
2.2 Organising QT/ET/ATP at the premises of sub-system manufacturer. 
a. Manufacturer has to organise QT/ET at the manufacturers end as per sub -system 
acceptance document provided in the TOT document.  

--- PAGE 3 ---

b. Manufacturer has to conduct FAT’s at the manufacturers end as per sub -system 
Factory acceptance document provided in the TOT document before despatch of 
sub-system for system Integration. 
 
2.3 Auditing of Quality Process 
a. Manufacturer will ensure auditing  of quality process by competent authority 
responsible for quality assurance as spelt out by LSI. 
b. LSI will have the right to nominate Competent authority responsible for quality 
assurance and inspection at the manufacturers premises. 
 
 
3. TOT TERMS 
3.1 As per DRDO Guidelines for Transfer of Technology (TOT), the first TOT will normally 
be given to the industry associated during development on priority so as to ensure high 
quality of manufacture within the limitations in hand-holding support of DRDO. 
 
 
3.2 TOT will be given on non -exclusive basis only. The number of license on non -exclusive 
basis will be restricted. However , additional licence if required will be given by DRDO 
on need basis. The intellectual property rights shall always remain with DRDO.   
 
3.3 The amount and payment stages of TOT fee will be as prescribed by DRDO.  As per 
current guidelines it is upto 20% of its developmental cost. 
 
3.4 Royalty fee @ 2% of the annual sales will be applicable uniformly for all industries. 
 
3.5  Technical assessment of the i ndustries submitting EOI’s will be carried out by a 
Technical assessment committee for verification of the technical and financial 
capability/capacity of the industry. 
 
3.6 Eligible parties will have to sign Confidentiality & Non -Disclosure Agreement (CNDA) 
with DRDO for technical discussion including specifications, following which they shall 
be considered for giving Transfer of Technology (TOT) on non-exclusive basis. 
 

--- PAGE 4 ---

3.7 TOT to industry will be given based on their manufacturing capability, assurance on 
quality and capacity of production apart from other terms and conditions.  
 
3.8 The licencing agreement for transfer of technology (LATOT) which is to be signed will 
be as per the template approved by Department of Legal affairs. Ministry of Law and 
Justice. 
 
3.9  DRDO shall have the march-in rights to use the IP for its own use in the interest of the 
Govt. of India without any restrictions, irrespective of the nature of licence granted. 
 
3.10 DRDO shall have the right to Revoke the Licence if the company fails to adhere to the 
terms and conditions especially with respect to adherence of Quality. 
 
3.11 The firm expressing interest should be technically sound to Procure/manufacture, 
supply and maintain the system with requisite quality standards.  
 
4. EOI TERMS 
Interested Industries may  write along with their company profile, financial & technical 
capabilities etc. as per the following format  to Director, NPOL, Kochi and copy to  Director 
DIITM on the following addresses  within 45 days of this advertisement. 
 
Director, NPOL 
DRDO, Min. of Defence,  
Thrikkakara P.O. 
Kochi-682021 
Contact No - 0484 2424878 
FAX : 0484-2424858 
Email: director@npol.drdo.in 
Director, DIITM  
Room No 446 DRDO Bhawan 
DRDO HQrs Ministry of Defence  
Rajaji Marg New Delhi – 110011  
Contact No - (011) 23016216 / 23007446 
FAX No. 011-23793008 
 
a) Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian 
Companies Act, 1956)  
b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.  
c) Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  
d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  

--- PAGE 5 ---

e) Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/ shareholders, 
foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt. 
of India policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI).  
f) Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  
g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents etc. held by the company.  
h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.  
i) Record of past performance (e.g. Supply orders executed against Ministry of 
Defence orders, public sectors and paramilitary forces, if any.  
j) Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production 
capacities) and technical expertise.  
k) List of Testing and Support equipment. 
l) ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  
m) Relevant clearances from the authorities/ ministries (if any) 
n) Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant 
financial and commercial risks.  
o) Capacity/Capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and 
service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 
 
 

--- PAGE 6 ---

                                                         Annexure 1 
 
Page 1 of 5 
 
WET END SUB-SYSTEM OF SONAR ALTAS 
 
1. The Wet End System consists of: 
1.1 Towed Projector Unit (TPU) 
1.2 Towed Receiver Array (TRA) 
1.3 Tow Cable Assembly (TCA) 
1.4 Array Data Interface Box 
 
2. Towed Projector Unit. (TPU) 
The Towed Projector Unit consists of: 
2.1 Vertical Projector Array. (VPA) 
2.2 Vertically Towed Body. (VTB) 
2.3 Tuning Coil Box  
2.4 Cable Harness Assembly. 
 
The Towed Projector Unit is a vertical  array of  underwater sound projectors(VPA) 
housed in  a free flooded hydro dynamically stabilised Vertically Towed Body (VTB).  
The Electronics are housed in a pressure tight  Tuning Coil Box at the base of the  
Vertical Projector Array to operate at an ocean depth of 300 meters 
 
3. Towed Receiver Array   
  
The Towed receiver array is an assembly of different modules consisting of acoustic  
sensor modules and isolation modules.  The acoustic sensor module is a linear array 
of acoustic sensors,  along with signal conditioning electronics. The acoustic sensors 
and electronics are housed in a flexible tube filled with oil or jelly . The sub -systems 
of Receiver array consists of : 
 
3.1 Isolation Module Level-1 
3.2 Acoustic Sensor Module Level-1 
3.3 Acoustic Sensor Module Level-2 
3.4 Acoustic Sensor Module Level-3 
3.5 Acoustic Sensor Module Level-4 
3.6 Isolation Module Level-2 
 
Each module has an average length of 30 met ers and diameter of 80 mm. The modules are 
interconnected using pressure balanced multi -pin under water marine grade connectors to 

--- PAGE 7 ---

                                                         Annexure 1 
 
Page 2 of 5 
 
form and operate as a single receiver array. The receiver array is designed to operate at depths 
of 200 meters and has a breaking strength of 2 tons. 
 
4. Tow Cable assembly  
Tow Cable assembly act as the life line of Towed Array Sonar, transferring the drag force to 
the winch, acting as the medium for transferring power supply to the arrays and providing a 
data telemetry link. Tow cable assembly consists of a light t ow cable, heavy tow cable, 
Electro-opto-Mechanical-Interface Connector and a Cable Interface Module. 
Both the Light Tow cable and Heavy tow cable have signal lines, power lines and FO lines. 
The light tow cable is design ed to be neutrally buoyant in water and can operate at water 
depths off 200 meter and has a breaking strength of 15 tons. The heavy tow cable is 
positively buoyant and can operate at water depths of 200 meters with a breaking strength of 
20 tons. Both Heavy tow cable and Light tow cable are torque balanced. 
Electro-opto-Mechanical-Interface Connector is a sealed unit designed to operate under 200 
meters of water and  couples the light tow cable and heavy tow cable electrically, optically 
and mechanically fo r a breaking strength of 15 tons. The Electro-opto-Mechanical-Interface 
Connector is also designed to couple the Towed Projector A rray electrically and 
mechanically  on the tow cable assembly. 
 
The free end of the HTC is provided with a winch end mechanica l termination and optical 
conectorisation. The free end of the LTC is to be assembled with Cable Interface Module 
(CIM) which converts the electrical signal from Receiver Array into optical signal. A 
schematic block diagram of Tow Cable assembly is shown below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Schematic block diagram of Tow Cable Assembly 
 
1. Heavy Tow Cable (HTC)  
2.  Electro-opto-Mechanical-Interface Connector (EOMIC) 
3. Intermediate anchoring 
4. Light Tow Cable (LTC) 
5. Cable Interface Module 
 
1 3 2 5 4 4 

--- PAGE 8 ---

                                                         Annexure 1 
 
Page 3 of 5 
 
5.  Array Data Interface Box 
The data from the towed array is available over optical link in the tow cable. The optical data 
from the array is received by converted to electrical format before taking the data through the 
winch slip ring.  The data is again converted to optical before s ending it to the Sonar control 
room. The former  conversion happens in the rotor box while the latter happens in the stator 
box. Both these units use  Ethernet Fiber Media converters for the conversions. Along with 
these converters, the units also house  the required power supplies and Ethernet switches. The 
Array interface unit (AIU) houses the electronics required for converting the optical data 
coming to the Sonar Control Room back to Ethernet form. It also houses the electronics 
required for the built in t est Insonifier  for the towed array. The AIU forms the interface 
between Towed Array data and signal processing  electronics at SCR. AIU accommodates 
Ethernet Fiber media converters, Ethernet switches, DC -DC converters and  Built in test  
insonifier  electronics. 
 
6. Skill Set requirement 
 
     6.1     Assembly, integration & Testing of Towed Projector Unit (TPU) 
 6.1.1  Competence to identify Transducer shell resonance and assembly of respective   
  PZT stack to obtain required  “Transmitting Voltage Response (TVR)” 
6.1.2  Competence for Impedance matching of transducer with Tuning  Coils for  
specified Delivery of power. 
         6.1.3 Competence for Assembly  of TPU without affecting overall set TVR and  
   Source Level 
        6.1.4   Expertise in Underwater testing of Transducers with Standard Hydrophones  
    6.1.5   Expertise in acoustic measurements with matching system power amplifier  
   and  Transducer array fine tuning till final proving of SL 
   6.1.6   Experience in handling PV/Epoxy resins for potting underwater connectors  
   and  Axially water-blocked multicore cables.  
 
    6.2      Assembly, Integration & Testing of Electro-opto-Mechanical-Interface  
      Connector 
          6.2.1  Competence in splicing of fibre optic cables of Multimode Fibre  optic lines. 
          6.2.2   Competence in safe securing of spliced fibre optic joints. 
          6.2.3   Competence  in steel  armoured cable termination.   
          6.2.4   Competence in  aramid fiber strength member cable termination. 
 6.2.5    Competence in polyurethane potting of cable termination to achieve high  
   pressure sealing  of cable termination. 

--- PAGE 9 ---

                                                         Annexure 1 
 
Page 4 of 5 
 
          6.2.6    Competence in epoxy potting of aramid strength member. 
          6.2.7     Competence in swage button termination of Steel wire ropes. 
          6.2.8      Competence in handling and pressure filling of Silicon  gel. 
          6.2.9      Competence in crimping of Stainless steel rings on flexible tubes. 
 
7. General  
The manufacturer  shall carry out Qualifications tests as per DQA N guidelines. 
Environmental Stress Screening (ESS) Tests include Thermal cycling. Random vibration and 
Endurance/burn-in for 100% Electronic Components. The Environmental Tests (ET) includes 
High temperature storage test and Vibration test as per MIL-STD-167-I(Ships). 
 
8. Facility Requirement  
The manufacturer should have their own facility for manufacturing, assembly, and testing of 
receiver arrays. The following facilities are required for carrying out the production work.  
a) An air-conditioned hall  with dimensions not less than 40 m long x 8 m wide x 6 m 
high. 
b) Environmental stress screening facility with not less than 150 liter capacity for 
carrying out screening of electronic components. 
c) Vibration facility to carry out random vibration and variable frequency test. 
d) Sophisticated Electronics Laboratory with facilities for precision electronics works 
such as wiring, soldering and testing. 
e) Load testing facility for tensile testing of the modules of Towed Receiver Array. 
f) Tube insertion facility with a provision of  inserting 35 m long modules with high 
capacity vacuum pumps. 
g) Oil filling facility with a height of 12 m. 
h) Dehumidified air-conditioned room for assembly of Sound Projectors. 
i) Pressure Test facility for 30 bar. 
j) Underwater measurement facility for deep water (40 meters)acoustic measurements  
k) Hydraulic press  
l) Rubber Molding  facility  
m) Deployment/Retrieval simulations test setup 

--- PAGE 10 ---

                                                         Annexure 1 
 
Page 5 of 5 
 
9. Equipment Requirement             
      The  following testing equipment are necessary 
a)  100 MHz Digital storage oscilloscope 
b) Computer/ Laptop with 100 Mbps Ethernet port loaded with Lab view software 
c) Stellar is Evaluation Kit (EKK – L M 3S 9 B 92) 
d) PL-USB Blaster (RCN, Make : Altera) 
e) Function (Arbitrary Waveform)  generator  (10 MHz ) 
f) Impedance analyzer 
g) High Voltage ( 300V/2 k W) DC power supply, with UPS back up  
h) Regulated DC power supply  0-30V, 5 A 
i) 1000 V  Megger 
j) RMS  Multimeter 
k) Insonification  Unit – for generating acoustic noise of required frequency