--- PAGE 1 ---

FABRICATION OF BRAKE PARACHUTE (HYBRID) FOR LCA
Brake parachute for LCA is used to assist normal wheel braking and to reduce the landing run
of  the  aircraft.  The  Brake  Parachute  system  for  LCA is  fabricated  using  various  textile
materials  (Nylon  cordages,  webbings  and  fabrics)  and  metal  parts.  The  major
components/subsystems of brake parachute system are given below: 
 Pilot chute
 Auxiliary Parachute
 Main Parachute
 Deployment bag
    The inflated parachute is shown in above figure.
1. Interested Companies/industries are requested to apply against this EoI to the 
following address:-
Director
Aerial Delivery Research and Development Establishment (ADRDE)
PO Box 51, Station Road
Agra Cantt – 282001
Phone : 0562 - 2258200/201/202
Fax: 0562- 2251677 / 2258203
Email : director[dot]adrde[at]gov[dot]in
2.  A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:-
Copy to: (For information only) 
Director 
Directorate Industry Interface and Technology Management (DIITM) 
Room No 447, DRDO Bhawan, DRDO HQrs, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi – 110011
 Phone No: 01123013209/23015291 Fax No: 011-23793008 
Email ID: diitm[dot]hqr[at]gov[dot]in
 
List of Support documents to be attached with EoI:- 
(a)  Memorandum  and  Articles  of  Association  (Should  be  incorporated  as  per  Indian
Companies Act, as amended time to time). 
(b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.
(c) Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.


--- PAGE 2 ---

(d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period.
 (e)  Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially  foreign  partners/shareholders,
foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of India
policies and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/ DIPP norms as applicable. 
(f) Annual budget for R&D during last three years.
 (g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 
(h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.
(i) Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of Defence
orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).
(j) Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities)
and technical expertise. 
(k) List of Testing and Support equipments. 
(l) ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification.
(m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any).
(n)  Capacity  and  capability  to  undertake  developmental  work  and  to  accept  attendant
financial and commercial risks. 
(o)  Capacity/capability  to  market  the  product  through  the  marketing  network,  sales  and
service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 
(p) PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material,
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc. 
(q)  Under  taking  form  company  seeking  ToT  that  none  of  its  Directors,  Independent
Directors, non-executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any corrupt
practices, unfair means and illegal activities. 
(r) Details of the industries license for Defence manufacturing be provided by the industry
seeking ToTs.