--- PAGE 1 ---

Scaled-up-3 Nitro 1,2,4 Triazol 5-One (NTO) Process 
HEMRL, Pune has developed the technology NTO. NTO is  a high energy material having applications 
in High Explosive formulations. It is one of the promising HE for insensitive munitions. Due to its high 
energy with lo w vulner ability high thermal stability, good self -binding property,  NTO can be used in 
many types of explosive fillings: melt-cast, cast cured PBXs and presses  PBXs formulations. The 
development of IM class of formulations containing NTO as a  potential fill in admixture with TNT is 
being explored wor ld –wide. HEMRL has established a cost effective, viable synthesis route for NTO 
technology using two-step processes. Process parametric conditions are optimized for desired particle 
size, and morp hology. Technology to prepare the NTO is mature and meets  the specification suitable 
for different applications. 
 
Contact Details 
1. Interested companies/industries are requested to apply against this EoI to following address:- 
 
To, 
Director 
High Energy Materials Research Laboratory (HEMRL) 
DRDO, Govt. of India, Ministry of Defence 
Sutarwadi, Pune-411 021 
Email-director.hemrl@gov.in 
 
2.  A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:- 
 
Copy to (without attachment) 
The Director 
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM) 
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011 
Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 2 ---

 
 
List of Support documents to be attached with EoI 
(a)  Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian Companies Act, 
as amended time to time) 
 (b)  Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 
 (c)  Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.  
(d)  Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period  
(e)  Details of shareholding/ownership pattern especially foreign partners/ shareholders, foreign 
employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of India policies and 
regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable.  
(f)  Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  
(g)  Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 
 (h)  Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel. 
 (i)  Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of Defence orders, 
Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).  
(j)  Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities) and 
technical expertise.  
(k)  List of Testing and Support equipment’s 
 (l)  ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  
(m)  Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 
(n)  Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant financial and 
commercial risks.  
(o)  Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and service 
network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 
(p)  PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material, expl osives, 
propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.  
(q)  Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent Directors, non -
executive Directors, Key management personnel are involved in any corrupt practices, unfair 
means and illegal activities. 
(r)  Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by the industry seeking 
ToTs.