--- PAGE 1 ---

THEJAM Accelerometer (THEJAM-II)
Technology Overview:
1. THEJAM-II Accelerometer is designed and developed by RCI. 
2. THEJAM-II Accelerometer is majorly meant for INS and IMU systems.
3. THEJAM-II Accelerometer provides a very high input range and excellent long-term
repeatability. With the advantages of enhanced bias stability, improved scale factor and
axis misalignment, the THEJAM-II is a perfect solution for high accuracy strap down
INS in Missile applications.
4. Expression of Interest (EoI) is requested from competent firms for transfer of THEJAM-
II Accelerometer technology for production.
5. The terms and conditions of EOI are detailed below.
(a) Industries can submit applications with in  21 days from the date of  publication on
DRDO website.
(b) The firm’s turnover should be greater than Rs. 37.5 Cr. per annum.
(c) Documents to be submitted with EOI: - The firm must provide details about firm and
documents in support of their claim as per Appendix- A. Any additional documents
as required by DRDO shall be sought based on request received from the interested
industries. 
(d) The THEJAM Accelerometers technology is highly complex technology and requires
inter  disciplinary  knowledge  of  Optics,  high  precision  manufacturing,  electro-
magnetic assembly, critical mechanical assembly equipment, clean room facilities,
electronic instrumentation and testing capabilities. The participating firms shall meet
following essential criterion:
(i) The industry should have p rior experience of at least 3 years in development
/manufacturing,  assembly  and  testing  of  Multi-disciplinary,  High  precision
navigation sensor systems similar to Accelerometers qualified and delivered for
Defense/  Aerospace  applications.  (S.O.  copies  for  the  delivery  of  similar
systems should be provided with EOI).
(ii) Clean room of ISO class 100 – 1,00,000 for optics processing, Electro Magnetic
Device assembly, integration and testing is essential. ISO class 100 cleanroom
of  min  area  150  m2 for  Optics  processing  and  assembly,  ISO  class  1000
cleanroom  of  min  area  100  m2 for  chemical  cleaning,  gold  sputtering  &
metrology, ISO class 10,000 cleanroom of min area 200  m2 for electrical &
electronics assembly and integration, ISO class 1,00,000 clean room of  min
area 100 m2 for service area is essential with standard operating protocols.
Page 1 of 16

--- PAGE 2 ---

(iii) Adequate qualified human resources, infrastructure, and test equipment to carry
out  the  fabrication,  assembly  and  integration  of  Optical  systems,
electromagnetic  sub-assemblies,  PCB  assembly,  testing,  screening  and
functional  testing  as  per  the  process  document  are  essential.  Relevant
infrastructure  such  as  Laminar  flow  benches  for  assembly,  soldering  work
station, chemical cleaning/ chemical etching set ups, anti-static work benches,
digital  multi  meters,  regulated  power  supplies,  data  acquisition  system,
Electrostatic  discharge  (ESD)  protection,  Uninterrupted  power  supply  with
backup systems provisions etc. are essentially required. 
(iv) Previous and on-going experience of delivery of systems with clearance by
Defence QA agencies like RCMA/CEMILAC, DGAQA, MSQAA, R&QA, SSQAG,
CQA etc. is essential. 
(v) It is essential that the participating firms shall have ISO 9001:2015 & AS 9100D
certification.
(vi) The firm should allow DRDO Technical Team to visit and inspect the above
mandatory requirements.
(vii) Further details like requirements of machines, metrology and testing equipment,
human  resources  requirement  will  be  provided  on  submission  of  NDA  to
Director, RCI.
(e) Technical Assessment Committee (TAC) of DRDO will be responsible for shortlisting
technically  competent  and  financially  competent  industries  which  could  successfully
absorb the technology leading to production of the products based on the technology
while maintaining the requisite quality standards.
(f) TAC will verify the claims made by the industry as per the information submitted in their
Expression  of  Interest  (EOI)  and  shortlist  the  industry  meeting  the  requirement  for
absorption of the technology.
(g) TAC shall seek additional document from the industry and or may visit the industry to
verify the claims made by the industry.
(h) The evaluation criteria given in Appendix-B - “Evaluation criterion for review by TAC”
with supporting documents has to filled and submitted along with the EoI without which
the EoI will not be considered.
(i) The other terms and conditions are as per the ‘DRDO Policy for ToT’ and ‘DRDO
Procedures for ToT’ for Category ‘A’ available at DRDO website.
(j) Requirements to be fulfilled by ToT licensee for obtaining Technology Absorption (TA)  
certificate:  After LATOT is signed by the firm, the firm is required to produce at least 20
Page 2 of 16

--- PAGE 3 ---

Nos. of THEJAM-II Accelerometer based on Technology Transfer  documents (TTD)
received from DRDO for carrying  out functional demonstration to DRDO and complete
the Qualification and acceptance testing at their own cost and submit a compliance
report.  The  Firm  also  should  have  established  essential  production  facility  with
equipment, test setup infrastructure as required and indicated in EOI. DRDO team may
visit for inspection of established facilities. On completion of above task satisfactorily,
RCI will recommend to issue Technology Absorption certificate by DIITM. The firm
should take necessary steps to retain trained manpower for the execution of production
orders. The firm is solely responsible for the Quality of the product. The firm shall have
qualified QA/QC team. Technology absorption certificate needs to be obtained with in a
period of 3 years after signing of LAToT by licensee.
Contact Details 
1. The desirous industries should send their Expression of Interest (EoI) to Director, RCI on
the following address: - 
Director,
Research Centre Imarat (RCI)
Vignyana Kancha
Hyderabad- 500 069
Fax:040-24306002
E-Mail: director[dot]rci@gov[dot]in
Copy to:- 
Director, 
Directorate of Industry Interface and Technology Management (DIITM), 
DRDO Headquarters, 
DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg,
New Delhi- 110011. 
Fax: 011-23793008.E-Mail: diitm@hqr[dot]drdo[dot]in tot@hqr[dot]drdo[dot]in
Page 3 of 16

--- PAGE 4 ---

Appendix-A
List of support documents to be attached with EOI
a) Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian Companies
Act, as amended time to time) 
b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any. 
c) Audited Balance Sheet and turnover of the company for the preceding three years. Company
shall submit latest net worth certificate by a statutory auditor  
d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three-year period 
e) Details of shareholding / ownership pattern especially foreign partners / shareholders, foreign
employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt. of India policies
and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) / DIPP norms as applicable. 
f) Annual budget (if any) for R&D during last three years.
g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 
h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel and internal Quality Control team. 
i) Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry of Defence
orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any). 
j) Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities) and
technical expertise to fabricate, assemble and test the units. 
k) List of Testing and Support equipment
l) ISO / AS9100D certification or any other certification (if any).
m) Relevant clearances from the authorities / ministries (if any). 
n) Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept attendant financial
and commercial risks.
o) Capacity / capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and service
network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 
p) Industrial license for defence manufacturing issued by DPIIT (if any).
q) PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material, explosives,
propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc. 
r) Undertaking from company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent Directors,
non-executive  Directors,  and  Key  management  personnel  are  involved  in  any  corrupt
practices, unfair means and illegal activities. 
s) Undertaking from Company seeking ToT in respect of (g) and (h) of EoI. (s). Brief description
of R&D facilities and certificates recognised by any Govt. agencies. 
t) Application cum Industry Assessment Form
Page 4 of 16

--- PAGE 5 ---

Application cum Industry Assessment Form
PART-1
General Information
(Please enclose documents in support of information provided)
1. Name of the Technology requested for Technology Transfer 
(Technology name and concerned Lab, Category)
2. Name of the industry/organization
3. Complex Address and other details
Registered Office
State
Phone No
Fax
Email
Website
Factory
State
Phone No
Fax
Email
Website
4. Point of Contact
Name
Designation
Address
Mobile No
Ph No
Email ID
5. NAME OF CMD/MD/PARTNERS/PROPRIETOR/etc
Name
Designation
Address
Mobile No
Ph No
Email ID
6. Date of Incorporation of company
7. Foreign Direct Investment in company (if any in %)
8. Shareholding pattern
9. Turn over as per Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding 
three years.
Year ______
Year ______
Year ______
Page 5 of 16

--- PAGE 6 ---

10. Annual budget for R&D during last three years (if any).
Year ______
Year ______
Year ______
11. Income Tax returns for the preceding three years period.
Year ______
Year ______
Year ______
12. Nature of company
DPSU, Private Limited, Public Limited, Partnership, 
Proprietary, Ex-Serviceman Unit
13. Category of industry
Large Scale, Medium Scale, Small Scale, Micro Startup
14. MSME Registration Number
15. Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.
16. If Startup, DPIIT Registration No
17. UDYOG AADHAR No
18. PAN Number
19. Details of Industrial license for defence manufacturing 
issued by DPIIT (if any)
20. Details of PESO license (if any)
21. GST Number
22. Nature of Business
Manufacturing / Sole selling or Authorized Agent/ Assembler/ 
Traders/ Dealers/ Processor/ Repacker/ Others
23. Details of current products and services
Products and services Supplied (please specify Govt/ Domestic 
market/ Export)
24. Record of past performance
(e.g., Supply orders execute against of Ministry of Defence 
orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).
25. Details of registration with NSIC / SSI, DGS&D, other 
Defence Department, other Govt. Dept, membership of 
FICCI/ASSOCHAM/CII or other industrial Association
(Attach relevant copies of registration letters)
26. Have you already taken any technology from DRDO (If yes, 
give details attaching separate sheet).
Name of the Technology, Lab, Year, License number & Status
27. ISO/ISI Certification or any other certification (If yes, give 
details)
Page 6 of 16

--- PAGE 7 ---

28. Relevant clearance from the authorities/ ministries (if any)
29. Capacity and capability to undertake development work and
to accept attendant financial and commercial risks.
30. Capacity/Capability to market the product through the 
marketing network, sales and services network, reliability to 
maintain confidently.
31. Production capacity/month or capability to expand capacity
PART-2
Infrastructure and other Information
1. Total area of factory
Covered (m2),
Uncovered (m2),
Bonded space available (m2)
2. Ownership of factory
Self-owned, partnership, rental
3. Electric power
Sanctioned
Installed
Standby (if any)
4. Availability of adequate infrastructure
(List of machines and their production capacities) and technical 
expertise
5. Name of bank & A/c No Name of bank
A/c type
A/c no
Address of the bank
Phone:
Email:
7. Details of current production: 
S.
No
Type Description Licensed/installed capacity Annual 
production for 
preceding 3 years
Page 7 of 16

--- PAGE 8 ---

8. Details of foreign collaboration, if any
S.
No
Product Name and address of collaborator    Year      Remarks
9. Details of products developed for services
S. No Nomenclature of stores Order No. and date Remarks
10. Please give details of important facilities & infrastructure as per following format for:
a. Production
b. Unconventional, special m/c
c. Testing & quality control facilities
11. Furnish the following details with relevant certificates and documents
a. R&D facilities available:
b. Inspection quality control of raw material components:
c. Assistance from central agency for testing / calibration etc:
d. Laboratory and drawing office facility:
12. Principal customers:
S.No Name & address S.O No and 
date
Date of last 
supply
Products 
supplied
   Value
13. Future plans (if any) in respect of expansion programme/installation of additional 
machines/test facilities etc.
14. Name of the technology requested for transfer
(Give self-assessment of your capability to absorb the technology)
Page 8 of 16

--- PAGE 9 ---

15. Details of employee as on date on firm’s pay roll
PERMANENT
Category Post Held Number Qualification Total Service
Technical Prod. Manager
Q.C. Manager
Supervisor
Testing Staff (QC)
Skilled workers
Unskilled workers, etc
Administrative Purchase Manager
Accounts Officer
Office Superintendent
Clerical
Others, etc
TEMPORARY
Category Post Held Number Qualification Total Service
Technical Prod. Manager
Q.C. Manager
Supervisor
Testing Staff (QC)
Skilled workers
Unskilled workers, etc
Administrative Purchase Manager
Accounts Officer
Office Superintendent
Clerical
Others, etc
DECLARATION :
I / we confirm that the information furnished in Part 1 & 2 above is correct. In the event of any
information given by me / us is found incorrect / false at any time, I / we understand our EoI
for ToT will be cancelled/ rejected without notice, beside any other appropriate action against
me / us.
Industry seal Authorized signatory
Name(s) in capital
Page 9 of 16

--- PAGE 10 ---

Designation and seal of 
authorized signatory
Dated:
Place:
Page 10 of 16

--- PAGE 11 ---

Appendix-B
Evaluation criterion for review by TAC
I. The following checklist has to be filled and submitted along with the EOI 
II. For  the  purpose  of  evaluation,  the  participating  firm  shall  mean  the  company/group  of
companies of Indian origin.
III. For the purpose of evaluation, Systems/Sub-systems delivered on or after 01 January 2018 will
only be considered.
IV. The participating firm, if involves sub-contractors for Test facilities, they shall provide the full
information (name, Address, Turn-over, Product/Service subcontracted, certifications, SO copy
etc.) of sub-contractors during the submission of EOI.
V. Parameters of evaluation for technical assessment along with the marking scheme is given
below. The evaluation and marking scheme is indicative in nature and DRDO reserves the right
to modify the marking scheme if needed.
Sl.no. Parameter Supporting Documents
1. Expertise  in  development,
manufacturing,  assembly
and  testing  of
Multidisciplinary,  High
precision  navigation
sensors or systems.
Corresponding Details
to be filled
Relevant Purchase Order (PO)
copies  with  technical
specifications/ Scope of work
to be submitted
No. of Purchase Orders executed and delivered for each 
of the following systems
a) Navigation Sensors like
RLG,  FOG,  HRG  &
MEMS
b) Aerospace  Grade
Sensors  similar  to
accelerometers
c) Electro-Magnetic
devices  for  aerospace
& defence application
d) Electro-Optical  systems
for defence application
2. Manufacturing Experience:
Experience  in
manufacturing  defense
systems of similar type, No.
of POs executed for similar
type  of  product  in  last  5
years
Corresponding  Details
to be filled Purchase Order (PO) copies and
associated  delivery  challan
within  last  5  years  to  be
submitted
No. of POs in last 5 years
Specify Customer Names:
3. Green  cards  /  I  Notes  /
Clearance Certificates from
Defence  QA/QC  agencies
Corresponding  Details
to be filled
 Defence  QA/QC  agencies
issued  Green  Cards/  I  Notes
/Clerance Certificates/ Boarding
Page 11 of 16

--- PAGE 12 ---

(RCMA/CEMILAC,
DGAQA, MSQAA, R&QA,
SSQAG,  CQA)  for  five
different similar Systems /
Sub-systems
Pass of different sub-systems to
be submitted
No. of Green cards/ I Notes/
Clearance Certificates
4. ISO  9001:2015   and  AS
9100D certification
Corresponding  Details
to be filled Valid certificates to be submitted
Certificate Nos. and Details
5. In-house Manufacturing 
capability: Mandatory 
facilities requirement
Corresponding  Details
to be filled  Test  Facility  Specifications,
Photos  and  calibration
certificates to be submitteda) Clean  room  of  ISO
class  100  for  optics
processing  &
assembly
b) Clean  room  of  ISO
class 1000 for optics
processing  &
assembly
c) Clean  room  of  ISO
class 10000 for optics
integration & testing
d) Clean  room  of  ISO
class  100,000  for
testing
e) High  precision
metrology  equipment
(CMM  &  Optical
profilometer)
f) High  precision
magnetron  Gold
sputtering equipment
g) chemical  cleaning  &
chemical  etching
equipment  for  quartz
processing
h) High  precision  CNC
machines
i) High  precision  Laser
cutting machine
j) Coil  Winding
machine  (machine
should wind 30 to 50
microns dia. wire )
6. In house Test facilities Corresponding  Details
to be filled
 Test Facility Specifications, 
Photos and calibration 
certificates to be submitted if 
in-house.
a) Automated
Accelerometer
Page 12 of 16

--- PAGE 13 ---

Calibration  and  test
facility  to  verify
performance
characteristics  at
various temperatures.
 The  participating  firm,  if
involves  sub-contractors  for
Test  facilities,  they  shall
provide  the  full  information
(name,  Address,  Turn-over,
Product/Service
subcontracted,  certifications,
SO  copy  etc.)  of  sub-
contractors  during  the
submission of EOI.
b) Endurance  and
reliability  testing
setup,  including
thermal  cycling,
vibration,  and
position tests.
c) Helium  Leak
detection  /
measurement systems
d) Dynamic
performance
evaluation  system
with  high-speed  data
acquisition  systems
compliant  with
aerospace standards
e) Magnetic  field
measuring equipment
f) Magnetization & 
Demagnetization 
equipment
g) Vacuum system for 
Soldering and Sealing
station
h) Gold  wire  bonding
machine  (machine
should bond the wire
thermally  of  30
microns diameter)
i) Ultra-Vacuum Drying
Ovens
j) High accuracy & 
precision 3D Printer 
for waxing
k) Precision LCR meters
l) Stereo  zoom
microscopes
7. Willingness  to  invest  in
establishment  of  essential
infrastructure  /  test
facilities and Timelines for
establishment of the same.
Corresponding  Details
to be filled
Willingness  by  Firm  to  be
submitted  citing  the  investment
and  timelines  duly  signed  by
authorized signatory of the firm
8. Existing  Man  power
strength
Corresponding  Details
to be filled
Valid  IPC  certificates  to  be
submitted. Certificate by Firm to
be  submitted  citing  thea)Internal Firm QC
Page 13 of 16

--- PAGE 14 ---

experience details duly signed by
authorized signatory of the firm
No. of IPC certified QC with
minimum  3years  experience
in relevant field
No. of Mechanical QC with
B.E/BTech.  With  minimum
3yrs  experience in relevant
field
b)For PCB & Integration
No.  of   IPC  certified
Electronics/  Electrical
Diploma  /  ITI  persons  for
soldering  process(JSTD001)
and  integration,  IPC  trainer
for  Acceptance
(IPC600/610/620)
c)For Mechanical sub assemblies and Final integration 
activity
No. of Mechanical Engineers
B.E  /  B.Tech  with  domain
expertise  of  Precision
integration  and
manufacturing.
No. of  Mechanical Diploma
for  Sub  Assembly  and
sealing activity
No. of Mechanical ITI fitter
for  Chemical  cleaning,
chemical  etching,  waxing
integration  and  testing
activity
d)For Inspection, Testing and Documentation
No.  of  Mechanical  &  One
Electronic  Engineers
B.E/BTech.  /MTech.  with
minimum  domain  expertise
of  3yrs  for  Inspection,
Testing and Documentation
9. DPIIT  License  &
certifications  like  AFQMS
etc.
Corresponding  Details
to be filled
a) Valid Defence License issued
by DIIPT
Note:  If  applied  for  DPIIT
License, mention time frame by
which it will be available
b)The  supply  order  of  System/
sub-system corresponding to the
year  mentioned  in  DPIIT
License   along  with  detailed
technical  specifications  of  the
sub-system to be submitted.
Relevant DPIIT License
(Applied, Not Applied or Not
submitted)
Available  AFQMS
certifications
(with details)
10. On-time Delivery: Delivery
of similar product executed
within  PDC  of  original
Purchase Order (PO)
Corresponding  Details
to be filled
Page 14 of 16

--- PAGE 15 ---

No.  of   POs  within  last  5
years
 PO, delivery challan and PDC
extension letter copies
11. Whether  Already  involved
in  development  of  the
similar  systems  mentioned
in  EOI  and  completed  its
Qualification Testing QT)
i)Yes/No
ii)If  Yes,  QT  Completed  or
not completed
and QC letter approval No.
PO  copy,  Green  card  (QC
clearance) and QT Conformance
report to be submitted
12. Experience  in  Sensor
assembly & Testing
Number of sensors for which
assembly & Testing  carried
out
PO copy involving assembly &
testing  of  sensors,  number  of
sub-systems for which assembly
& Testing  carried out
13. Banned/black-listed  from
any  Central  Govt./State
Govt./UT organization. The
applicant  firm  should  not
be bankrupt..
Self-Certificate  to  this  effect
with  duly  signed  by  authorized
signatory of the firm
Page 15 of 16

--- PAGE 16 ---

VI. The following annexures should be enclosed otherwise the Firm will not be considered for
ToT
Sl.No
.
Technical Parameters Supporting
Documents
Enclosed in
Annexure
reference no.
Supporting Documents as
mentioned above
1 Expertise in development, manufacturing,
assembly and testing of Multidisciplinary,
High  precision  navigation  sensors  or
similar systems.
Annexure-I Enclosed/not enclosed
2 Manufacturing Experience: Experience in
manufacturing defence systems of similar
type, No. of POs executed for similar type
of product in last 5 years
Annexure-II Enclosed/not enclosed
3 Green cards from Defense QA/QC agencies
(RCMA/CEMILAC,  DGAQA,  MSQAA,
R&QA,  SSQAG,  CQA)  for  five  different
Sub-systems
Annexure-III Enclosed/not enclosed
4 ISO 9001:2015  and AS 9100D certification Annexure-IV Enclosed/not enclosed
5 In-house  Manufacturing  capability:
Mandatory facilities requirement
Annexure-V Enclosed/not enclosed
6 In house Test facilities Annexure-VI Enclosed/not enclosed
7 Willingness to invest in establishment of 
essential infrastructure / test facilities and 
Timelines for establishment of the same.
Annexure-VII
Enclosed/not enclosed
8 Existing Man power strength Annexure-VIII
(a,b,c)
Enclosed/not enclosed
9 Relevant DPIIT License & certifications 
like AFQMS etc.
Annexure-IX Enclosed/not enclosed
10 On-time  Delivery :  Delivery  of  similar
product  executed  within  PDC  of  original
Purchase Order (PO)
Annexure-X
Enclosed/not enclosed
11 Already involved in development of the 
similar systems mentioned in EOI and 
completed its Qualification Testing QT)
Annexure-XI
Enclosed/not enclosed
12 Experience in Sensor assembly & Testing Annexure-XII Enclosed/not enclosed
13 Banned/black-listed from any Central 
Govt./State Govt./UT organization. The 
applicant firm should not be bankrupt.
Annexure-XIII Enclosed/not enclosed
Page 16 of 16