--- PAGE 1 ---

Manufacture of Fused Silica Radar Domes by Cold Isostatic Pressing
and Sintering Route
Defence  Metallurgical  Research  Laboratory  (DMRL),  Hyderabad  has  developed
Fused silica radomes by Cold Isostatic Pressing (CIP) Technology integrated with
RF seeker and performance evaluation tests were successful. The CIP technology
of  DMRL  offers high  yield  of radomes  with  targeted/acceptable properties.  This
technology uses indigenously available raw materials.
Brief about the Technology:  Fused silica is the preferred ceramic material for
fabrication  of  radomes  based  on  its  attractive  electromagnetic  and  mechanical
properties  as  well  as  good  thermal  shock  resistance.  DMRL  has  successfully
established the Cold Isostatic Pressing (CIP) and sintering route to manufacture
fused  silica  radomes  with  acceptable  properties  for  missile  application.  The
technology  envisages  identification  of  (i) Powder characteristics  (ii)  Binders and
special sintering reagents (iii) CIP parameters
and (iv) Sintering schedules to achieve the
material  with  desired  microstructure  and
amorphous structure. The CIP+sintered silica
exhibits  desired  combination  of  density,
electro-magnetic and mechanical properties.
A  patent  application on the CIP-technology
for  silica  radomes has been filed to  Indian
Patent  authorities  vide  Application  No:
201611032025. 
Application areas: The fused silica radomes
are used for a wide-range of target seeking missiles.
The CIP technology developed in DMRL for fabrication of radomes has undergone
type  trials  involving  internal  R&QA  of  DMRL,  MSQAA  (DRDL)  and  RCMA
(Materials). The material corresponding to full-size radomes was evaluated for all
relevant properties including non-destructive evaluation and subsequently the type
test schedule was prepared. 
Transfer of CIP Technology for bulk production of radomes: Large number of
radomes  requirement  is  anticipated  for  various  programmes.  The  patented  CIP
technology of DMRL was transferred to three industries on non-exclusive basis for
regular production.
This  technology  is  offered  for  technology  transfer  to  more  industries  on  non-
exclusive basis after technical evaluation of the industries as per the DRDO Policy
and Procedures for Transfer of Technology. 
Interested Industries are requested to forward their Expression of Interest (EoI) to
Director DMRL, Hyderabad (with attachments of supporting documents) with a copy
to Director DIITM, DRDO HQ (without attachment) on following address:-
Director
Defence Metallurgical Research Laboratory
Kanchanbagh P.O.,
Hyderabad-500058
Phone : 040-2434 0681
CIP+Sintered  and  machined  silica
radomes of with metallic bulk head.

--- PAGE 2 ---

Fax : 040-24340683
Email : director[dot]dmrl[at]gov[dot]in
Copy to:
Director
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM)
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi – 110 011
Phone: 011-23013209/23015291
Fax: 011-23793008
Email: diitm[dot]hqr[at]gov]dot]in
List of Support documents to be attached with EoI     
a) Memorandum and Articles of Association  (Should  be incorporated as per
Indian Companies Act, as amended time to time)
b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.
c) Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years. 
d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period 
e) Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially  foreign  partners/
shareholders, foreign employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to
the  prevailing  Govt  of  India  policies  and  regulations  on  Foreign  Direct
Investment (FDI)/DIPP norms as applicable. 
f) Annual budget for R&D during last three years.  
g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company. 
h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.
i) Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of Ministry
of Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).
j) Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production
capacities) and technical expertise.
k) List of Testing and Support equipment’s 
l) ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification 
m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any) 
n) Capacity  and  capability  to  undertake  developmental  work  and  to  accept
attendant financial and commercial risks. 
o) Capacity/capability  to  market  the  product  through  the  marketing  network,
sales and service network, reliability to maintain confidentiality. 
p) PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy
Material, explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc
(if applicable). 
q) Under  taking  form  company  seeking  ToT  that  none  of  its  Directors,
Independent Directors, non-executive Directors, Key management personnel
are involved in any corrupt practices, unfair means and illegal activities. 
r) Details of the industrials license for defence manufacturing be provided by the
industry seeking ToTs.