--- PAGE 1 ---

HMX based Pressable High Explosive Compositions (PBXP-202) for Main
Charge (MC) of Tandem Warhead
To make high explosive composition / molding powder  for MC of Tandem
Warhead, slurry methodology was chosen for coating binders on HMX particles.
Slurry  based  method  is  safe  and  MEK  +  water  is  a  conducive  medium  for
coating. A reaction vessel fitted with propeller blades and baffle plates were used
for manufacture of high explosive composition. The reaction vessel is of suitable
capacity and is fitted with a suitable power pack to rotate the agitator. It is also
fitted with cooling and heating arrangements. The other equipments which are
required are water heated oven, electronic weighing balance, filter etc.
The high explosive composition / molding powder (PBXP-202) having lower
sensitivity, high density, high VoD was developed by coating HMX particles with
a  binder  at  high  temperature. The  high  explosive  composition  is  used  for
manufacture of MC which is based on shaped-charge kill-mechanism to destroy/
damage the targets by penetration and blast effect.  This composition has been
proven to have equivalent performance as that of imported origin. 
Therefore, this technology has fully matured and it is ready for transfer to
any Private Industry and PSU having PESO License. 
All  the  raw  materials,  equipments  and  test  facilities  required  for  the
preparation and characterization of HE composition are indigenously available.  
Application Areas:
HMX based Pressable High Explosive Compositions for MC of tandem
warhead  is  used  mainly  for  shaped  charge  warhead.  The  HE  composition
including the HMX and other binders destroys / damages the targets by the
penetration and blast effect.
Unique Selling Point (USP):
All  the  developmental  trials  of  composition  have  been  completed
successfully. All the raw materials and equipments required for the preparation of
HE composition are indigenously available. 

--- PAGE 2 ---

1. Interested companies/industries are requested to apply against this EoI to
following address:-
To,
The Director
High Energy Materials Research Laboratory (HEMRL),
DRDO, Govt. of India, Ministry of Defence,
Sutarwadi, Pune-411 021
Email-director.hemrl@gov.in
Phone No:020-25869230/ 25912101
Fax No: 020-25869316
2.  A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any
attachment:-
To, 
The Director,
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM),
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan, Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011
Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in
Phone: 011-23007446
Fax No. 011-23793008

--- PAGE 3 ---

PART-1
1.1.1 General Information 
1. Name of the Technology requested for Technology Transfer
(Technology name and concerned Lab, Category)
2. Name of the industry/ organization
3. Complete Address and other details
Registered Office
State
Phone No
Fax
Email
Website
Factory
State
Phone No
Fax
Email
Website
4. Point of Contact
Name
Designation
Address
Mobile No
Ph No
Email ID
5. NAME OF CMD/ MD /PARTNERS/ PROPRIETOR/ etc
Name
Designation
Address
Mobile No
Ph No
Email ID
6. Date of Incorporation of company
7. Foreign Direct Investment in company (if any in %)
8. Shareholding pattern
9. Turn over as per  Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding
three years.
Year ____
Year ____
Year ____
10. Annual budget for R&D during last three years
(if any)
Year ____
Year ____
Year ____
11. Income Tax returns for the preceding three years period
Year ____
Year ____
Year ____

--- PAGE 4 ---

12. Nature of company
DPSU, Private Limited, Public Limited, Partnership, Proprietary,
Ex- Serviceman Unit
13. Category of industry
Large Scale, Medium Scale, Small Scale, Micro, Startup
14. MSME Registration No
15. Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.
16. If Startup, DPIIT Registration No
17. UDYOG AADHAR No
18. PAN Number
19. Details  of  Industrial  license  for  defence  manufacturing
issued by DPIIT (if any)
20. Details of PESO license (if any)
21. GST Number
22. Nature of business
Manufacturing/  Sole  Selling  or  Authorized  Agent/  Assembler/
Traders/ Dealer/ Processor/ Repacker/ Others
23. Details of current products and services
Products and services Supplied (please specify Govt/ Domestic
market/ Export)
24. Record of  past performance  (e.g., Supply orders  executed
against  of  Ministry  of  Defence  orders,  Public  Sectors  and
Paramilitary Forces, if any).
25. Details of registration with
NSIC / SSI, DGS&D, other Defence Department, other Govt.
Dept, membership of FICCI/ASSOCHAM/CII or other Industrial
Association
(Attach relevant copies of registration letters)
26. Have you already taken any technology from DRDO (If yes,
give details attaching separate sheet)
Name of the Technology, Lab, Year, License number & Status
27. ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification  (If yes, give
details)
28. Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any)
29. Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work
and to accept attendant financial and commercial risks.
30. Capacity/capability  to  market  the  product  through  the
marketing network, sales and service network, reliability to
maintain confidentiality.

--- PAGE 5 ---

PART-2
1.1.2 Infrastructure and other Information
1.1 Total area of factory
Covered (m2),
Uncovered (m2),
Bonded space available (m2)
2.1 Ownership of factory
Self-owned, partnership, rental
3.1 Electric power
Sanctioned
Installed
Standby (if any)
4.1 Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of
machines  and  their  production  capacities)  and
technical expertise
5.1 Name of bank & A/c No
Name of bank
A/c type
A/c no
Address of the bank
Phone: Email:
Appendix 'A' Details of current products:
Sl.no
.
Type Description Licensed/installed
capacity
Annual  production
for preceding 3 years
Appendix 'B' Details of foreign collaboration, if any
Sl.no
.
Product Name & address of collaborator Year Remarks
Appendix 'C' Details of products developed for services
Sl.no
.
Nomenclature of stores Order no and date Remarks
Appendix 'D' Please give details of important facilities & 
infrastructure as per following format for:
a. Production
b. Unconventional, special m/c
c. Testing & quality control facilities
Sl.no
.
Description  of
m/c
Make  &
model
Qty date  of
purchase
Remarks

--- PAGE 6 ---

Appendix 'E' Furnish the following details with relevant certificates
and documents
a.   R&D facilities available :
b.   Inspection quality control of raw material components :    
c.   Assistance from central agency for testing / calibration etc. :
d.   laboratory and drawing office facility :
Appendix 'F' Principal customers:
Sl.no
.
Name & address S.O  No.  &
date
Date of last
supply
Products
supplied
Value
Appendix 'G' Future plan (if any) in respect of expansion programme
installation of additional machines/ test facilities etc.
Appendix 'H' Name of the technology requested for transfer (give self-
assessment of your capability to absorb the technology)   
Appendix 'I' Details of employee as on date on firm’s pay roll 
PERMANENT
Category Post Held Number Qualification Total Service
Technical Prod. Manager
Q.C. Manager Supervisor
Testing  Staff  (Qc)  Skilled
workers
Unskilled workers, etc.
Administrative Purchase  Manager
Accounts  Officer  Office
Superintendent  Clerical
Others etc
TEMPORARY
Category Post Held Number Qualification Total
Service
Technical Prod. Manager
Q.C. Manager Supervisor
Testing  Staff  (Qc)  Skilled
workers
Unskilled workers, etc
Administrativ
e
Purchase  Manager  Accounts
Officer  Office  Superintendent
Clerical Others, etc

--- PAGE 7 ---

DECLARATION :
I / we confirm that the information furnished in Part 1 & 2 above is correct.
In the event of any information given by me / us is found incorrect / false at any
time, I / we understand our EoI for ToT will be cancelled/ rejected without notice,
beside any other appropriate action against me / us.
Industry seal Authorized signatory
Name(s) in capital
designation  and  seal  of  authorized
signatory
dated:
Place:

--- PAGE 8 ---

List of Support documents to be attached with EoI:-
(a) Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per 
Indian Companies Act, as amended time to time).
(b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.
(c) Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.
(d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period.
(e) Details  of  shareholding/ownership  pattern  especially  foreign  
partners/shareholders, foreign  employees,  directors,  etc.  The
company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of India policies and regulations
on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/ DIPP norms as applicable.
(f) Annual budget for R&D during last three years.
(g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.
(h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.
(i) Record of past performance (e.g., Supply orders executed against of  
Ministry of Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if 
any).
(j) Availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  (List  of  machines  and  their  
production capacities) and technical expertise.
(k) List of Testing and Support equipments.
(l) ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification.
(m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any).
(n) Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept
attendant financial and commercial risks.

--- PAGE 9 ---

(o) Capacity/capability  to  market  the  product  through  the  marketing  
network, sales and service  network,  reliability  to  maintain  
confidentiality.
(p) PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy 
Material, explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with  
it etc.
(q) Under  taking  form  company  seeking  ToT  that  none  of  its  Directors,  
Independent  Directors,  non-executive  Directors,  Key  management  
personnel are  involved  in  any  corrupt practices, unfair  means  and  
illegal activities.
(r) Details of the industries license for Defence manufacturing be provided  
by the industry seeking ToTs.
(s)      Application cum Industry Assessment Form.