--- PAGE 1 ---

IMPRESSED CURRENT CATHODIC PROTECTION SYSTEMS (NMR-ICCP-MK-II) 
FOR SHIPS 
Apart from controlling current to mitigate corrosion, in this ACU , Static electric 
(SE) signatures caused by corrosion and CP currents can be minimised by 
optimizing the location of t he anode and REs through computer modeling. The CP 
current can be minimized with the concept of m odular auto control unit (ACU) 
comprising of number of modules of auto control unit or power supplies in one unit. 
In this concept, the current fed by each ano de is controlled by an independent ACU 
module having a dedicated RE and anode providing uniform potential of the 
protected structure.  The CRM signatures can be minimised by reducing the SE 
signatures. The SE signature due to power supply ripple can be mini mised by 
specifying low ripple power supplies. The EM field associated with SE signature can 
be minimised by reducing SE signatures. For minimizing above signatures, Naval 
Materials Research Laboratory (NMRL), Ambernath has developed a microcontroller 
based modular ACU having low ripple power supplies. 
The designed Microcontroller based modular ACU feed minimum current to 
provide uniform hull potential which will result in reducing the underwater signature. 
This ACU is interactive to the user in view of monitorin g and fault diagnosis, 
minimizes human intervention and reduces maintenance requirements during its 
operation. 
 
Salient Features 
 Microcontroller based modular ACU 
consists of eight modules interfaced 
with industrial PC inbuilt touch screen 
panel. Each module comprises of a low 
ripple dc power supply, a control 
module with dedicated anode and 
reference electrode. 
 Real time health monitoring of hull and 
ICCP components using SCADA facility 
and storing ACU parameters at 
predetermined intervals. 
 Alarms for generated faults. 
 Fault troubleshooting and remedial 
measures as ready- reckoner. 
 Data logging of ICCP readings in ship’s 
monthly returns format. 
 
Application 
Cathodic protection with ICCP 
system can be used for corrosion 
protection of ship's under water hul l, 
floating metal objects and any other 
submerged structures in marine medium.