--- PAGE 1 ---

  Advertisement No.  DRDL/HRD/INTERNSHIP/2026/01  PAID INTERNSHIP AT DRDL HYDERABAD ADVT. FOR THE PAID INTERNSHIPS FOR PURSUING ENGG/SCIENCE UG/PG STUDENTS. Defence Research Development Laboratory (DRDL),Hyderabad is a premier laboratory of the Defence R&D Organisation (DRDO) engaged in the Research and Development of advanced technologies in the areas of Missile Systems for Indian Armed Forces. DRDL invites applications from candidates, Indian citizens (through walk-in-interview) with excellent academic background for paid internship for a period of six months.  All candidates pursuing Undergraduate in Engineering (Final year) or pursuing Postgraduate in Engineering or Physical Science (Final year) are eligible for Paid Internship for a duration of 6 Months.                                 *Note:- Number of vacancies mentioned above are indicative and may increase or decrease at the absolute discretion of the establishment.      
Branch Code.   Branch/Discipline Number Of Vacancies Monthly Stipend  (in Rs.) Duration of Internship/ Project  Location of Internship EE Engineering – Electronics Electronics and Communication Engineering / Electronics & Instrumentation / Electrical Engineering  58       5,000/- Per Month       06 Months       DRDL / ASL/  CAS Hyderabad ME Engineering - Mechanical/ Chemical/ Aerospace/Production/ Material/ Safety/Textile Technology 87 PH  Mathematics and allied science 05 CS   Computer Science and Engineering (CSE, AI, Cyber Security & Allied) 15  TOTAL 165 
DEFENCE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT  ORGANISATION (DRDO)  DEFENCE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT LABORATORY  HYDERABAD -500058 

--- PAGE 2 ---

 
 
 
1. MINIMUM EDUCATION QUALIFICATION:- 
Pursuing Graduate (Engineering)/Post Graduate in Engineering or Physical Science, full time course in 
the respective discipline from a recognized Indian University/institute. 
2. DURATION OF INTERNSHIP: -The duration of internship/project work training will be for a period of 
06 months. Completion Certificate will be issued to students after completion of 06 months from date of 
joining the internship program. 
3. SELECTION PROCEDURE:- 
a. The candidates should have good academic track record with a minimum of 60% marks or 
equivalent CGPA in the pursuing Graduate Engineering  / Postgraduate (Engineering/Physical 
Science) from AICTE/UGC approved Universities. 
b. Principal/Director of Institution should provide the request letter to highly      
deserving Meritorious students only 
c. Age Limit:-  Below 28 Years. 
d. Eligible candidates maybe shortlisted on the basis of Interaction / Interview and on the basis 
of % marks. CGPA to be converted to Percentage. [average of completed semester 
       /years). 
e. Shortlisted students will only be notified about the joining procedures and regarding 
undertaking forms and indemnity bond to be filled by them and by the head of the institution. 
f. Shortlisted candidates are required to bring Character Certificate from their College as well as 
police verification certificate. 
4 BOARDING/LODGING:- No boarding or lodging expenses are admissible. However selected 
candidates can obtain lunch, tea, snacks, etc facilities on subsidized rate at DRDL/ASL/CAS wet- 
canteen. 
 
5. PAYMENT OF STIPEND: - Stipend of internship and retention of internship training for a period of 06 
months is only applicable if a student has good performance and completes a minimum of 15 working 
days per month of physical attendance at DRDL/ASL/CAS. Payment will be made in two installments. 
First installment will be paid after 03 months of training/Internship. 
6. Upon successful completion of the Internship training which includes clearing of evaluation of project work and submission of project report, and completion of other formalities, certificate of completion will be awarded to the student. 
7. Laboratory (DRDL/ASL/CAS) shall have no obligation to offer employment to such interns / project students nor an intern can claim a right for employment on the grounds of completion of this Internship. The laboratory will not responsible for any injuries sustained during the internship period. 
8. Stipend will be paid directly in bank account of the student after completion of three months. 
9. If the student is unable to complete the internship and leaves in between the program, then 
Certificate of Completion will not be issued to such students. No payment will be made if a 
student does not complete a tenure of minimum 03 months.  
10.  While walking-in, the candidates are to submit the applications in envelopes at the registration desk, clearly writing on the envelop  “Application for Paid Internship", further mentioning the “Branch Code.........." for ease in segregation of applications.

--- PAGE 3 ---

11. IMPORTANT DATES: - 
Sl. No. Branch Code 
EE/ME/PH/CS 
Closing date 
(Tentative dates) 
1. Last date for filling of applications 16th Aug 2026 
 
2. Information to Selected 
candidates for Interview 
23rd  Aug 2026 
3. Date of start of Internship 01 st Sep 2026 
 
12. Selection will be based entirely on merit basis. No communication will be undertaken for rejected candidates. 
13. The management reserves the right to change the vacancy positions or selection criteria at any 
point during selection process of the aforesaid internship scheme without assigning any 
reason whatsoever. 
14. Selected students will have to submit the following documents at the time of joining: 
a. No Objection Certificate (NOC) from college authorities (in original) on college 
letterhead mentioning that the student will be relieved for internship training at 
DRDL/ASL/CAS and that the student will be present for a minimum 15 working days 
in a month for training. 
b. Police verification from local police station. Acknowledgement received from Police 
station to be submitted at the time of joining (if selected). 
c. Undertaking for adherence to Indian official secrets Act,1923. 
d. Undertaking that interns will follow IT rules and regulations applicable for Ministry of 
Defence and its amendments thereof. 
e. Selected students need to provide the bank details for transfer of internship amount. 
f. Medical fitness certificate from authorized medical practitioners holding at least an MBBS degree. 
g. At the time of joining, student is required to bring the Aadhar card (in Original) along 
with college ID card for Verification. They should also submit 03 nos. passport size 
photographs at the time of joining. 
h. All previous semesters marks sheets in original are to be brought for on-the-spot verification 
purpose only.  
i. All original documents /marks sheets will be returned immediately after verification. 
j. Any other documents if required, will be communicated to the student at the time of 
selection/joining. 
k. Indemnity form will be provided by the college as and when required by DRDL/ASL/CAS. 
15. Candidates should make their own arrangements for their stay and transport in Hyderabad.     They should   plan to stay for one or more days  if  requirement arises  due to more number of candidates attending the walk-in-interview. 
16.  Interview date will be intimated after shortlisting of candidate’s selection via Phone and in DRDO website. 
17.  All the candidates are requested to forward the scanned copy of application to : 
    drdlintern2026@gmail.com 
 
 

--- PAGE 4 ---

Format for Application for DRDL Paid Internship Scheme 
 
 
1. Name of the Applicant :      
  
2. Date of Birth   :       
   
3. Aadhar Number  :  
4. Name, Address and  
Contact Number of College : 
5. Discipline   : 
6. Branch Code   : 
7. Degree    :  UG:  Semester/Year: 
PG:   Semester/Year: 
8. %  Marks / CGPA 
(On scale of 10) copy to  
  to be enclosed )  :  
 
9. Achievement   : 
(Awards/Professional  
 Membership, if any to be 
 Mentioned) 
10. Languages Known  : 
11.  Referral letter from 
Principal / Director of  
 College / Institute  :   [MANDATORY] 
 
12.  Permanent Address : 
 
13.  Local Address, if any : 
 
14.  Contact Number  : 
 
15.  Email ID   :  
 
 
The above information is correct as per my best of knowledge and belief. 
 
 
Place: 
Date: Signature of the Applicant
 
 
Affix Passport Size 
Photo 

--- PAGE 5 ---

To be printed on college letter head and signed by Principal/Director of College / Institution    Ref No:    TO, Date:  The Director, Defence Research and Development Laboratory (DRDL), Defence R&D Organisation, P.O. Kanchanbagh, Hyderabad,TeIangana-500 058.  Subject: Request for Paid Internship opportunity for a period of six months Respected Sir,  We request an internship opportunity for our VII/VIII semester Graduate engineering student or I/IIyear Post Graduate Engineering /PhysicaI Science student for Paid internship Scheme of DRDO at DRDL/ASL/CAS, Hyderabad. Shri/Ms.... ....................... ... ..........is a bonafide student of this college having enrollment no-----------------. He / She is a meritorious student and is eager to gain practical exposure in the defence related applications through an internship at your esteemed laboratory. We request an internship from 1s’September 2026 to 28th February 2027. Below are the details of the student, faculty coordinator and the college / institution: Student Details:  Faculty Coordinator Details:  
  Name   Course   PRN/College ID Number    Mobile Number           Permanent Residential Address                                                                                                                             Email ID       
Name of Faculty  Designation  Department Contact No.    Email ID HODE email ID 

--- PAGE 6 ---

Colleqe Details: 
 
College Name  
AICTE Permanent ID   
DTE Code 
 
Affiliated to  
Affiliation ID  
Email ID  
 
Contact No  
Fax No.  
The college has no objection if he/she joins internship at your  organization and is 
physically present in the establishment for a minimum of 15 working days in a month. The 
college will relieve the student to undergo the internship at your establishment. We also 
hereby accept to give the indemnity form as and when required by DRDL/ASL/CAS, 
Hyderabad. 
It is also hereby assured that student will complete full tenure of his/her paid training. 
We believe that this internship will be an excellent opportunity for our student to enhance 
his / her technical skills. Kindly consider this request and grant the necessary permissions. 
\Ne assure you of our student’s commitment to learning and adherence to all institutional 
norms. 
 
Thanks and Regards, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature of Principal / Director of 
College / Institution 
With Office Seal.