--- PAGE 1 ---

VSHORADS Propellant for Booster and Sustainer
VSHORADS propulsion system has a Main Motor (MM) which includes Booster and Sustainer
grain in a cartridge loaded configuration. Technology has been developed with high burn rate
propellant  for  booster  and  low  burn  rate  propellant  for  sustainer  with  cartridge  loaded
properties. High strength rubber insulation has been developed for booster and sustainer. With
the  developed  propellant  and  insulation  systems  motors  were  processed  and  tested  at
different temperature conditions and met all the mission requirements.
The technology is now ready for transfer (both Booster and  Sustainer ) for mass production.
1. Interested  Companies/industries  are  requested  to  apply  against  this  EoI  to  the
following address:-
To, 
The Director,
High Energy Materials Research  Laboratory (HEMRL)
Sutarwadi, Pune-411 021
Email- director.hemrl@gov.in
2. A copy of interest may be sent to the following address without any attachment:-
To, 
The Director, 
Directorate of Industry Interface & Technology Management (DIITM)
Room No. 447, DRDO Bhawan Rajaji Marg, New Delhi-110 011
Email-diitm.hqr@gov.in
List of Support documents to be attached with EoI:-
(a) Memorandum and Articles of Association (Should be incorporated as per Indian Companies  
Act, as amended time to time).
(b) Certificates of registration as a manufacturing unit, if any.
(c) Audited Balance Sheet for the preceding three years.
(d) Income Tax returns for the preceding three year period.
(e) Details  of shareholding/ownership  pattern especially foreign  partners/shareholders, foreign  
employees, directors, etc. The company must adhere to the prevailing Govt of India policies 
and regulations on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI)/ DIPP norms as applicable.
(f) Annual budget for R&D during last three years.
(g) Numbers and details of IPR or patents, etc., held by the company.
(h) Number of technically or professionally qualified personnel.
(i) Record  of  past  performance  (e.g.,  Supply  orders  executed  against  of  Ministry  of  
Defence orders, Public Sectors and Paramilitary Forces, if any).

--- PAGE 2 ---

(j) Availability of adequate infrastructure (List of machines and their production capacities) and  
technical expertise.
(k) List of Testing and Support equipments.
(l) ISO/ ISI certification or any other certification.
(m) Relevant clearances form the authorities/ ministries (if any).
(n) Capacity and capability to undertake developmental work and to accept
attendant financial and commercial risks.
(o) Capacity/capability to market the product through the marketing network, sales and  service  
network, reliability to maintain confidentiality.
(p) PESO and DPIIT license for explosive handling if ToT is for high energy Material,  
explosives, propellants, and component/ system dealing with it etc.
(q) Under taking form company seeking ToT that none of its Directors, Independent Directors,  
non-executive Directors, Key management personnel  are involved  in any  corrupt practices,  
unfair means and illegal activities.
(r) Details of the industries license for Defence manufacturing be provided by the industry seeking 
ToTs.